SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14270
TITLE: Alcoholic Beverages
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
5.5 Alcoholic Beverages
Former Policy Number: 1.2
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to all members of the university community, including students, employees, affiliates, contracted third parties, visitors and guests of the university or any of its sites, campuses, facilities or events. More specific criteria consistent with the requirements and standards established within this policy may be established for individual university campuses, facilities, or organizations.
DEFINITIONS:
Authorized Vendor:
A legal or business entity, person or persons that hold a license issued by the Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco of the Department of Business and Professional Regulation and meets the qualifications set forth in
F.S. 561.14
(3), and any additional qualifications as set forth by State/Federal regulations and the University.
Legal Drinking Age:
Minimum drinking age threshold set for the country or jurisdiction in which University-related business or activity is conducted. For the United States, as set by the Federal Uniform Drinking Age Act or the applicable laws of states and U.S. territories, and for foreign countries, as set by the applicable laws of the country.
Third-Party Event:
A University-supported activity involving an external entity involving the provision, sale and/or service of alcoholic beverages.
Student Activities:
Any student or student-sponsored, including Registered Student Organizations, activities or events that involve the provision, sale and/or service of alcoholic beverages.
University Event:
Any University-sponsored or supported activity involving a University unit or department including the provision, sale and/or service of alcoholic beverages.
Sponsored Activity:
An activity including alcoholic beverages in which university funds are expended for the purpose of purchasing and/or securing the alcoholic beverages.
Supported Activity:
An activity serving alcohol where the university’s resources, such as University facilities or support units, are used during an activity to support the safe provision, sale, service or consumption of alcohol but no university funds are used for the purchasing or securing of alcoholic beverages.
Supporting or Sponsoring Unit/Individual:
Unit, department, student organization or individual operating with the support or sponsorship of the University that coordinates an activity on behalf of the University or Third Parties involving the sale, consumption, possession or service of alcoholic beverages.
Organized Tailgating:
a Third-Party (unaffiliated party to the University) or party or group with a University-affiliation within a reserved, designated space, during athletic events, that does not take up any parking space or impede traffic in any way on university premises that may involve the consumption of alcohol. These can be supported or sponsored activities.
Community Tailgating:
a party or group of 2 or more persons within a designated general parking lot or area during on-campus athletic events, for the purpose of hosting or attending a social gathering that may involve the consumption of alcohol. This is considered to be a university-supported activity.
POLICY:
I.
Introduction.
As an institution of higher education, Florida Atlantic University is committed to providing a campus environment free of the abuse and illegal use of alcohol.  Alcohol will only be permitted in settings that do not inhibit the full participation of those who choose not to drink alcohol and that comply with all applicable federal, state, municipal and county laws and ordinances, all university regulations and policies,  and all applicable health and safety regulations.
II.
General Policy Statement.
The unlawful possession, use or abuse of alcohol is strictly prohibited in and on all property owned, leased or controlled (temporarily or permanently) by the university or at any university event. No person acting on behalf of the University, to include, but not limited to, reporting to work, attending class or participating in a university activity, should do so while impaired by the use of alcohol. Individuals who choose to consume alcohol are responsible for their behavior. The university has a strict no-tolerance policy towards underaged drinking, and driving while intoxicated or under the influence of alcohol.  The university condemns any act related to the consumption of alcohol that impairs, interferes, or endangers the safety or enjoyment of others, including the individual who chooses to consume the alcohol.
Individuals who choose to consume alcohol are responsible for their behavior. This policy is incorporated by reference into:
University Regulation 4.007 – Student Code of Conduct.
University Regulation 5.012 – Employee Standards and Disciplinary Procedures
.
III.
General Requirements.
The sale, consumption, possession or service of alcoholic beverages on any university campus or facility and at all university events or activities are governed by the following:
Adherence to Laws, Regulations and Policies:
Any sale, consumption, possession or service of alcoholic beverages on university campuses or facilities and at university events must adhere to all applicable alcoholic beverage laws and ordinances and all university regulations and policies.
All persons acting on behalf of the University or Registered Student Organizations, such as, in the capacity of a representative or facilitating/coordinating or participating in activities or events held on-campus or off-campus at non-university facilities shall obey applicable federal, state and local laws and university regulations and policies.
Any individual conducting or engaged in international University-related business or activity, to include but not limited to, education, instruction, research and partnership, shall comply with the applicable alcohol-related laws of the foreign country.
Minimum Drinking Age and Valid Identification:
Alcoholic beverages may only be possessed by, served by, served to and consumed by persons who are of legal drinking age as set for the United States and its territories or as prescribed by the laws of foreign countries. But, in no case below 18 years of age. Proof of age, as determined by a State of Florida driver’s license, State of Florida identification card, valid passport or other official identification that includes a photograph of the individual, is required. Use of fraudulent or false identification at a university event or activity will result in removal of the individual, notification to the proper authorities and/or other appropriate disciplinary and legal action.
On-Campus Locations:
The sale, service or possession of alcohol is only permitted in designated locations.
The serving, possession or consumption of alcohol involving individuals of legal drinking age may be permitted in a private, residential rooms or locations, such as residential halls or other on-campus housing or residences, unless otherwise prohibited by the governing organization, President or designee.
Off-Campus University Events:
The sale and service of alcoholic beverages, for off-campus university events, must be from an authorized licensee and registrant as per
F.S. 561.14
.
Authorized Vendor and Exclusivity:
The contracted dining and catering services provider is the only authorized vendor permitted to provide, sell or serve alcoholic beverages to individuals of legal age on university campuses and facilities.
Sale of Alcoholic Beverages:
The sale of alcoholic beverages includes a charge for admission via donation or otherwise or the exchange of anything else of value.
Donated Alcohol for Activities and Events:
Donations of alcohol must be from an authorized licensee and registrant as per
F.S. 561.14
.
Donations of alcohol are subject to applicable University exclusivity agreements, as applicable. See Section E.
Open or Unsealed Containers:
Possession or consumption of alcoholic beverages in open or unsealed containers is prohibited, except in designated areas or as approved for events.
Student Activities, University Events or Third-Party Events Including Alcohol:
All university events that include the sale, service or consumption of alcohol on university property must be pre-authorized and registered pursuant to the procedures set forth in this policy.
Students and employee participants at university events where alcoholic beverages are served may be asked to provide a current valid university identification to gain admission.
Alcoholic beverages may not be served or consumed at social events held in conjunction with any organized drive to recruit students.
With the exception of approved non-student university events described in Subsection III.C.3. and approved tailgating events as set forth in Section V below, individuals are not permitted to bring their own alcoholic beverages to university events.  Only those alcoholic beverages served by the authorized vendor may be possessed or consumed at the event. The alcoholic beverages served must be consumed within the facility designated for the event.
University events and/or students activities including alcohol at 3rd party establishments, such as restaurants and clubs, where the venue is formally rented or leased by the university, the 3rd party must provide or acquire appropriate liability coverage, other applicable coverages and indemnities, as appropriate.  If the event does not meet the definition of a university event, for example, an after-work meet-up at a restaurant that is an independently licensed alcohol vendor, there would be no prerequisites or requirements in this policy that would apply beyond the employee or student code of conduct.
Safety and Security:
The university’s police department shall be advised of all on-campus events or activities and off-campus university events involving alcohol, except as determined in Section III C.
Any activity or event involving the sale, service, possession or consumption of alcohol must be done in a safe and secure manner.  On-campus activities involving alcoholic beverages may be stopped or limited, if deemed necessary by appropriate authorities.
The university police department may require the presence of university police officers at on-campus events and activities involving alcohol.
IV.
Additional Requirements for 1) On-Campus Student Activities or  2) On or Off-Campus University Events for Students.
In addition to the general requirements set forth in Section III above, these are applicable to all students (on campus) and University-sponsored or supported events for students (on or off-campus) involving the sale, consumption, possession or service of alcoholic beverages:
On Campus:
All student-sponsored late-night activities (functions which are expected to end after midnight) involving alcohol will require the presence of at least two (2) university police officers.
Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public or common areas within on-campus residential areas shall follow rules and requirements provided by the Department of Housing and Residential Education.
On and Off-Campus:
Alcoholic beverages may only be served for a maximum of four (4) hours regardless of the length of the event and service must stop no less than 30 minutes before the end of the event.
Quantities of alcohol approved for an activity must be proportionate to the number of anticipated persons of legal drinking age and substantial quantities of non-alcoholic beverages and a variety of non-salty, non-snack food must be provided by the activity sponsor. Nonalcoholic beverages must be available at the same place as the alcoholic beverages and featured as prominently as the alcoholic beverages. If the non-alcoholic beverage or food is depleted before the end of the activity, the serving of alcohol must cease until a new supply is made available.
Alcoholic beverages must be dispensed in individual serving sizes. Students will be allowed a maximum of three alcoholic beverage servings per student-sponsored activity. Alcohol will only be served to an individual for his/her own consumption. No one may obtain alcohol for others.
The service, sale, possession or consumption of alcohol is restricted to liquor containing no more than fourteen (14) percent alcohol.
No collections or donations of any type are permitted for the purpose of purchasing alcohol during an activity.
The conduct of drinking games is prohibited.
For activities requiring an authorized vendor, only pre-authorized vendors can be utilized. This is subject to exclusivity agreements for on-campus activites.
V.
Tailgating and Athletic Events.
In addition to all other policy conditions, the following conditions shall apply to the service, purchase, possession, distribution or consumption of alcohol and alcoholic beverages on university premises at events occurring in conjunction with university athletic events and competitions – either before, during or after the games.
Alcohol shall not be sold or served within the confines of any on-campus facility where an athletic event is being held, except if approved by the President.
Individuals and members of the public are strictly prohibited from entering an athletic venue while carrying or bearing any type of container, open or closed, which contains any type of alcoholic beverage.
Event managers and university police reserve the right to deny access to or remove from athletic events, individuals and members of the public who exhibit behaviors consistent with alcohol intoxication, or who behave in any manner inconsistent with this alcoholic beverages policy or any other university regulation or policy.  Event managers and university police further reserve the right to confiscate any alcohol or alcohol containers being held, sold or served in violation of this alcoholic beverages policy.
Tailgating activities shall be restricted to specifically designated locations monitored by the university police department.
Tailgating start and end times must be established to ensure a safe and orderly event, but will not exceed 4 hours without approval from the appropriate support departments. The start and end times of tailgating activities, within this timeframe, may be dictated by a number of factors including event duration, availability, recommendations and direction provided by university support services, and the size and scope of the event.
Kegs and glass bottles will not be permitted by any persons other than authorized vendors.
Organized tailgating activities are subject to applicable University exclusivity agreements.
VI.
Promotional Criteria and Use of Trademarks.
Trademarks of the university shall be used in accordance with
University Policy 2.3
(Trademark Licensing) regarding alcohol products.
On-campus promotions shall not advertise alcohol or sponsorship by alcohol marketers without prior written approval of the appropriate University authorities.
Alcohol advertising on campus or University sponsored or supported media, including student media and other media which promotes events as well as product advertising, shall not portray drinking as a solution to personal issues, academic problems of students or as an enhancement to social, sexual, or academic status.
Additional Requirements for 1) On-Campus Student Activities or  2) On or Off-Campus University Events for Students.  Any such on-campus promotion must meet the following requirements:
Alcohol shall not be used as an inducement to participate in and may not be offered as a prize or gift in any form of contest, raffle or competition regarding on-campus student activities or university events for students. Social events that encourage drinking, drinking contests, or drunkenness, and the advertisement of such events, are prohibited.
Advertising for any student or student-sponsored activity or university events where alcoholic beverages are served shall mention the availability of nonalcoholic beverages as prominently as alcoholic beverages.
Promotional materials for any student or student-sponsored activity or University events for students or promotional materials included within student media, shall not make reference to the amount of alcoholic beverages available. This includes references to kegs or open bars.
Promotional materials for on or off campus University events for students, student or student-sponsored activities or promotional materials included within student media (including fliers, advertisements, commercials, notices, posters, banners, etc.) for any function at which alcohol is served, shall not refer to quantity or price of alcohol available, including drink specials.  Alcoholic beverages shall not be a prominent part of such promotions and such advertisements shall not promote the misuse of alcohol. Advertisements of off-campus student activities involving alcohol must be approved by appropriate University authority, prior to distribution or posting.
VII.
Sanctions
. Violations of this policy will subject the individual not only to university sanctions but also to potential criminal prosecution by the appropriate authorities.  Specific sanctions for employees are dependent on employee classification and will be handled by the Department of Human Resources with assistance from key areas, such as the Office of the Provost.  For students and Registered Student Organizations: The Office of the Dean of Students.
VIII.
Alcohol Education and Programs.
In support of the university’s commitment to providing a campus environment free of the abuse and illegal use of alcohol, the university has adopted and implemented a number of educational and rehabilitative programs and resources for members of the university community, to include: (i) individual assessment, (ii) counseling and referrals to community resources, (ii) training and educational programs; (iv) communication and information dissemination initiatives (v) supervision of independent study or community service.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
University President or designee:
Designates locations on all campuses and sites where alcoholic beverages can be sold, served and consumed. Default designees are the policy’s responsible authorities and delineated according to designated student use and non-student-related facilities and outdoor spaces per
University Policy 4.2.1
.
Approves all university events involving alcoholic beverages. The University President has the final authority to approve alcohol requests for University events for students or on-campus student-sponsored activities.
Student Affairs:
Responsible for student activity registration and review/approval of registered activities at Student Affairs-related facilities, Registered Student Organization activities and off-campus university events for students.
Establish procedures for monitoring the number of drinks served at on or off-campus events, as applicable.
Implementation of Student Code of Conduct.
Review and revision of regulations regarding student conduct, Student Government and student organizations.
Public Affairs:
Sets the baseline criteria and requirements for the University community’s use of trademarks and promotions of alcohol or sponsorship by alcohol marketers.
Retains final review and approval authority for all University-sponsored or supported on or off-campus promotions of alcohol or sponsorship by alcohol marketers.
University Police:
Evaluates the safety and security of any activity involving the sale, service, possession or consumption of alcohol and, at its sole discretion if deemed to be unsafe or unsecure, stopping or limiting such activities.
Reserves the right to deny access to or remove from University property, individuals and members of the public who exhibit behaviors consistent with alcohol intoxication, or who behave in any manner inconsistent with this alcoholic beverages policy or any other university regulation or policy.
Reviews activity/event requests involving alcohol and determines the need for and extent of police presence.
Event Manager:
Reserves the right to deny access to or remove from activities/events, individuals and members of the public who exhibit behaviors consistent with alcohol intoxication, or who behave in any manner inconsistent with this alcoholic beverages policy or any other university regulation or policy.
Responsible for establishing start and end times in conjunction with or taking direction from participating university support departments and responsible authorities, such as University Police, Parking and Transportation, Facilities Management and Environmental Health and Safety to ensure a safe and orderly activity/event.
Office of Business Services:
Manages on-campus authorized vendor agreements pertaining to the sale and service of alcohol.
Processes requests for on-campus sale and service of alcohol requiring an authorized vendor.
Sponsoring Unit/Individual:
Responsible for obtaining approval for the sale or service of alcohol on University property.
Responsible for payment of services needed to support the sale, service or consumption of alcohol in accordance with this policy. This includes, but is not limited to safety and security operations and administrative fees.
Must provide adequate notice to University Police and other responsible authorities and appropriate support units, University officials and responsible individuals prior to the approved activity or event.
Third Party:
Third parties must partner with a sponsoring unit or individual to facilitate a University-supported activity.
PROCEDURES:
I.
Approval of Sale and Service of Alcoholic Beverages for University and Third-Party Events.
For on-campus events, requests for approval of alcohol provision, sale or service should be submitted to the Office of Business Services at least fifteen (15) business days prior to the date of the proposed event.
For off-campus university events, as described in Section III.I.5., provide the university with a certificate of insurance fifteen (15) days advance of the event date that includes appropriate coverage amounts and additional insured language for general liability and alcohol liability.
II.
Approval of Sale and Service of Alcoholic Beverages for On Campus Student and Student-Sponsored Activities / Off-Campus University Events for Students.
Any student organization intending to serve alcoholic beverages at any activity must first demonstrate that all its officers, activity volunteers and approved university advisors have a clear understanding of policy requirements as applicable to the provision, sale, service and safe consumption of alcoholic beverages, and additional requirements as set by the University, Division of Student Affairs and/ other University responsible officials or support units.
Organizational representatives must complete an alcohol program registration provided by the Division of Student Affairs which must be signed by the group’s advisor and appropriate facility manager and student affairs representatives. Final approval of the registration form is contingent upon completion of the alcohol training as stated above. No activity will be authorized until all approvals have been given.
The alcohol program registration form must be fully approved at least five (5) business days prior to the date of the proposed activity.
Student groups and organizations requesting permission to serve alcoholic beverages at an activity must adhere to all requirements specified on the alcohol program registration form. Such requirements include, but are not limited to, the presence of the group advisor during the time alcohol is served and adequate provisions to ensure that underaged persons are not served.
Registered student organizations or student government programs may only sponsor or co-sponsor a maximum of two (2) activities per month in which alcohol is served.
III.
Promotion Requests for University Events or Student Activities
For non-student events, a written request must be submitted to the Office of the Vice President of Public Affairs.
For student-sponsored activities, a written request must be submitted to the Office of the Dean of Students.
IV.
Notification of University Support Units, University Authorities and Liaisons of Approved On-Campus Student Activities and University Events, including Third-Party Events
University Police and other appropriate support units, university authorities and liaisons must be notified in writing at least five (5) days prior to the approved sponsored or supported event.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Related Information
Use of University Facilities – Section   Policy
561.14 License and registration classification
University Regulation 4.007 – Student Code of Conduct.
University Regulation 5.012 – Employee Standards and Disciplinary Procedures.