SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14242
TITLE: Emergency Management
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.4.1 Emergency Management
Former Policy Number: 1.14
APPLICABILITY:
This policy applies to all members of the university community, including all faculty, staff, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors at all FAU campuses, sites, and facilities. Campuses, facilities and sites co-located with other organizations have special considerations and relationships that may affect policy implementation.
POLICY STATEMENT:
It is the policy of Florida Atlantic University to protect its human and physical assets and ensure continued operations during and after all manner of emergencies, whether natural or man-made, by implementing appropriate emergency management programs consisting of policies, plans, and procedures designed to ensure the University’s ability to enable the capabilities required across the whole community to effectively prevent, protect against, mitigate, respond to and recover from emergencies.
This policy is intended to comply with all applicable local, state and federal laws and regulations including, but not limited to, Florida Statute Title XVII, Chapter 252.365; U.S. Public Law 110-315, Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA), Title 34, Code of Federal Regulations; and Florida Board of Governor’s Regulation 3.001. In the absence of specific regulatory mandates for particular situations, best emergency management practices shall be followed.
Responsibility for the administration of the University’s emergency management program is delegated to the Director of Emergency Management and implemented through operations of the Department of Emergency Management (DEM). Compliance with DEM program procedures, policies, and guidelines and applicable laws and regulations is a shared responsibility of all members of the University.
DEFINITIONS:
Executive Policy Group:
This group is comprised of leaders of the University’s key emergency management units as designated by the President.
Emergency Operations Team:
This group is comprised of key response units within the University.
Executive Leadership Team:
This group is comprised of senior administrative officials of the University as designated by the President.
Supervisor:
An individual who assigns or oversees work tasks of faculty, staff, or students and ensures the work is carried out correctly. For the purposes of this Policy, a supervisor does not necessarily need to have the responsibility to conduct performance evaluations or participate in any other personnel functions. For the purposes of implementing this Policy, faculty/instructors are supervisors of students and Deans/Department Chairs are supervisors of faculty/instructors.
Unit
: An entity or group of entities that share similar essential functions, which can be a division, department, college, office or center.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
a. The President
In an emergency, the President or designee shall implement the appropriate emergency plans and meet with the Executive Leadership Team to provide instructions to ensure maximum coordination. The President or designee, in the event of an emergency event or threat, shall exercise the authority to close one or more campuses of Florida Atlantic University, if deemed appropriate, with notification to the Chancellor of the State University System.
b. Executive Policy Group (EPG)
This group shall provide direction, policy and strategy in response to emergency situations/events. This group sh a l l determine how, when, and what to communicate to the University community during emergencies. It shall provide counsel and advice to the President and provide direction to the Emergency Operations Team on emergency-related policy making such as closing facilities, moving services to alternate locations, suspending academic and support service activities, and resuming normal operations.
c. Emergency Operations Team (EOT)
This team provides situational awareness and other pertinent information to the EPG. This team shall execute the emergency-related policies determined by the EPG and shall establish response strategies and tactics, deploy resources, and initiate the recovery process. The Director, Emergency Management will work with appropriate unit leaders to identify members to serve on the EOT. All designations to the EOT shall require final approval by the Director, Emergency Management. Members of the EOT are required to be available to serve within their capacities and fulfill their emergency support function.
d. Department of Emergency Management
DEM shall be responsible for the development, implementation, maintenance, and administrative oversight of the University’s emergency management program. This includes, but is not limited to, coordinating, and facilitating emergency planning, preparedness, response, and recovery activities within the University and with appropriate governmental and non-governmental agencies and organizations.
e. Emergency Management Advisory Group (EMAG)
This group shall be responsible for assisting the Department of Emergency Management in developing emergency management policies, plans, procedures, and projects requiring multiple-unit coordination in all areas of emergency management: planning, mitigation, response and recovery within the University.
f. University Community
Each employee and/or student shall immediately report a potential or actual emergency event or threat to the appropriate authorities (such as University Police or 911 call center) and to their immediate supervisor/housing official or designee.
All members of the University community shall provide, within the limits of their abilities, assistance to those individuals requiring it, during or after an emergency. Normally assistance is in the form of notifying emergency responders of the location of these individuals or by providing guidance to safe areas.
All employees and students shall respond to an emergency event or threat according to applicable plans and procedures.
All employees and students are expected to review existing emergency response protocols and procedures.
g. Campus and Organizational Units
Each vice president, dean, director, department chair, and supervisor shall oversee emergency preparedness efforts in their respective units and provide assistance in emergency response and recovery efforts as directed.
All University units are required to have Emergency Response Plans and Continuity of Operations Plans. Some University units may also be required to have additional or more specific plans in place such as Pandemic Plans and Stadium Emergency Operations Plans, as deemed appropriate.
All plans must be consistent with upper-level plans and must adhere to current templates. Each unit is responsible for reviewing and testing plans at least annually.
Unit heads shall ensure that their staffs are knowledgeable regarding their units’ emergency plans and procedures.
Unit heads shall determine the extent to which their units should participate in emergency management programs such as the Essential Personnel Program and shall provide appropriate representation as necessary or required.
PROCEDURES:
a. University Emergency Planning Systemwide Procedures
The Department of Emergency Management shall be responsible for developing any supportive procedures covering the development and maintenance of an all-hazards based, comprehensive emergency management program, including the development and maintenance of an emergency management planning portfolio.
At a minimum, a university-level plan shall outline a comprehensive and effective program to ensure continuity of essential University functions under all circumstances. The plan must identify a baseline of preparedness for a full range of potential emergencies to establish a viable capability to perform essential functions during any emergency or other situation that disrupts normal operations.
b. All university unit plans shall procedurally address, at a minimum:
Preparing for emergency events; updating notification tress, identifying stocking emergency supplies, etc.;
Evacuating and sheltering-in-place procedures in an emergency and for responses to fires, bomb threats, chemical spills, hurricanes, etc.;
Assessing damage to facilities and equipment and resources; and
Activating continuity of operations plans and performing mission essential functions either at the primary or an alternate site.
Adhering to any developed and distributed guidelines for plan development and implementation by DEM.
More information regarding specific procedures and emergency group designations can be found by visiting the University’s Department of Emergency Management website (www.fau.edu/emergency).
RELATED INFORMATION:
Department of Emergency Management:
www.fau.edu/emergency
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President for Administrative Affairs
Related Information
Department of Emergency Management