SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14317
TITLE: Hazing
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
5.3 Hazing
Former Policy Number: 6.5
APPLICABILITY:
This policy applies to all members of the Florida Atlantic University (“University” or “Florida Atlantic”) community, including without limitation all students, faculty, staff, applicants for admission and employment, third parties affiliated with University student organizations (including but not limited to coaches, advisors, volunteers, etc.) or university educational programs or activities, alumni, visitors, contractors and guests.
DEFINITIONS:
Hazing
: Hazing is defined slightly differently under applicable governing authorities. For the purposes of this policy, the definition shall apply to all of the following:
Federal Law (
Stop Campus Hazing Act
): Any intentional, knowing, or reckless act committed by a person (whether individually or in concert with other persons) against another person or persons regardless of the willingness of such other person or persons to participate that-
is committed in the course of an initiation into, an affiliation with, or the maintenance of membership, in a student organization; and
causes or creates a risk, above the reasonable risk encountered in the course of participation in the institution of higher education or the organization (such as physical preparation necessary for participation in an athletic team), of physical or psychological injury including-
whipping, beating, striking, electronic shocking, placing a harmful substance on someone’s body, or similar activity
causing, coercing, or otherwise inducing sleep deprivation, exposure to the elements, confinement in a small space, extreme calisthenics, or similar activity;
causing, coercing, or otherwise inducing another person to consume food, liquid, alcohol, drugs, or other substances;
causing, coercing, or otherwise inducing another person to perform sexual acts;
any activity that places another person in reasonable fear of bodily harm through the use of threatening words or conduct;
any activity against another person that includes a criminal violation of local, State, Tribal, or Federal law; and
any activity that induces, causes, or requires another person to perform a duty or task that involves a criminal violation of local, State, Tribal, or Federal law.
Florida Law (
Sec. 1006.63, F.S.
): Any action or situation that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for purposes including, but not limited to:
Initiation into any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution;
Admission into any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution;
Affiliation with any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution; or
The perpetuation or furtherance of a tradition or ritual of any organization operating under the sanction of a postsecondary institution.
University Regulation (
Regulation 4.007 Student Code of Conduct
): Any action or situation, which occurs on or off university property, that recklessly or intentionally endangers the mental or physical health or safety of a student for purposes including, but not limited to, initiation or admission into, affiliation with, or the perpetuation or furtherance of a tradition or ritual of any University student organization or group whether or not officially recognized by the university. Hazing does not include customary athletic events or other similar contests or competitions or any activity or conduct that furthers a legal and legitimate objective. Hazing includes, but is not limited to:
Pressuring or coercing a student into violating state or federal law;
Any brutality of a physical nature, such as whipping, beating, branding, exposure to the elements, forced consumption of any food, liquor, drug, or other substance; or other forced physical activity that could adversely affect the physical health or safety of the student; or
Any activity that would subject the student to extreme mental stress, such as sleep deprivation, forced exclusion from social contact, forced conduct that could result in extreme embarrassment, or other forced activity that could adversely affect the mental health or dignity of the student.
Institution Official:
An individual at the University who has significant responsibility for student and campus activities, including, but not limited to, student housing, student discipline, and campus judicial proceedings, excluding those individuals with responsibilities of confidentiality.
Student Organization:
For the purposes of the Stop Campus Hazing Act, student organization means an organization at an institution of higher education (such as a club, society, association, varsity or junior varsity athletic team, club sports team, fraternity, sorority, band, or student  government) in which two or more of the members are students  enrolled at the institution of higher education, whether or not the organization is established or recognized by the institution.
POLICY:
The University encourages a living and learning environment that promotes the health and safety of all members of the University community. Hazing behaviors can cause serious physical and neurological harm and can be life-threatening. Hazing is strictly prohibited, and the University has a strong no tolerance policy for hazing under any circumstances.
The following circumstances do not constitute a defense to allegations of hazing:
The consent of the victim had been obtained;
The conduct or activity that resulted in the death or injury of a person was not part of any official organizational event or otherwise sanctioned or approved by the student organization or group; or
The conduct or activity that resulted in the death or injury of a person was not done as a condition of membership into a student organization.
A. REPORTING
Any supervisory employee, other official who has the authority to institute corrective measures on behalf of the University, student organization faculty advisors and volunteers, coaches and academic advisors or Institutional Official who receives a report, observes or learns of an alleged incident of hazing or receives information regarding any activity which may constitute hazing or a violation of this policy must contact the Florida Atlantic Police Department at 561-297-3500 or file a report at
fau.edu/report
within, but no more than, twenty-four (24) hours of gaining such knowledge or receiving information. All employees in the University’s K-12 programs are all considered officials with authority to institute corrective measures on behalf of the University for K-12 students.
Reporting an incident or occurrence of hazing can also be made by anyone with knowledge or information pertaining to an actual or potential event of hazing in numerous ways, including:
ONLINE:
The University’s public reporting websites:
Report a Concern webpage:
fau.edu/report
Direct link to reporting form:
https://cm.maxient.com/reportingform.php?FloridaAtlanticUniv&layout_id=0
University Ethics hotline
located at
fau.edu/compliance
University Inspector General’s Anonymous Reporting Page:
Anonymous Complaint Form | Florida Atlantic University
.
IN PERSON:
Florida Atlantic Police Department
911
561-297-3500
Campus Operations Bldg, 777 Glades Road Building 69, Boca Raton, FL 33431
Victim Services
561-297-4841 (office)
561-297-0500 (24/7; ask to speak to an advocate)
Victimservices@fau.edu
Dean of Students Office
561-297-3542
deanofstudents@fau.edu
studentconduct@fau.edu
Student Services Building (SS #8), Room 222, Boca Raton, FL 33431-0991
Office of the Ombuds
561-297-3693
ombuds@fau.edu
Bldg 03/Wimberly Library Room 156B, Boca Raton Campus (appointment only)
B. INVESTIGATIVE PROCEDURES
Upon receiving a report or allegation involving faculty or staff, the Associate Vice President of Human Resources or designee shall initiate an administrative investigation. Upon receiving an incident report pertaining to a University student or student organization, the Dean of Students (DOS) or designee will conduct a preliminary review to assess jurisdiction and determine whether the report falls within the scope of Regulation 4.007 Student Code of Conduct (hereinafter Regulation 4.007). If the report falls under the scope of Regulation 4.007, DOS will initiate an administrative investigation. Administrative investigations will include without limitation interviewing involved parties, gathering evidence, and reviewing relevant documentation.  Reports or allegations pertaining to non-University personnel or students shall be referred to the Office of Compliance and Ethics, who shall conduct an administrative investigation in coordination with other relevant departments and parties as appropriate.
If a potential criminal violation is identified, the investigator will notify the Florida Atlantic Police Department (FAPD), which may conduct a separate, preceding, concurrent or subsequent investigation to the university. If a potential violation of Florida Atlantic Regulation 7.008 Anti-Discrimination and Anti-Harassment or Policy 1.15 Prohibited Discrimination & Harassment is identified, the investigator will notify the Office of Civil Rights and Title IX (OCR9), which may conduct a separate, preceding, concurrent or subsequent administrative investigation. Any University hazing investigation is independent of any criminal proceedings or OCR9 investigations, but the units will coordinate efforts where appropriate to ensure compliance with institutional policies and legal obligations.
If deemed necessary for the health, safety and well-being of the university community, emergency measures/interim actions (e.g., no-contact orders, organizational suspension, other restrictions) may be imposed while the investigation is ongoing. If a student involved in a hazing allegation is also a university employee (e.g. information desk assistant, graduate teaching assistant, resident assistant, campus recreation referee, student union operations manager, etc.), the University may place the student on administrative leave or terminate their employment separate, preceding, concurrent or subsequent to the student conduct administrative investigation.
C. MITIGATION/AMNESTY
Hazing behaviors can cause serious physical and neurological harm and can be life-threatening. As such, individuals are encouraged to make responsible decisions and to seek medical attention should they find themselves or others in serious or life-threatening situations that result from hazing activities. This protocol seeks to diminish fear of disciplinary action in such situations and to encourage individuals and organizations to seek needed medical attention for students in distress.
The University may not charge a student or student organization with an alleged violation of Student Code of Conduct Regulation 4.007(5) if the behavior meets the criteria outlined in Florida Statute 1006.63 (11)(a) and (12), also known as Andrew’s Law. This includes, but is not limited to, the individual remaining on scene with the person in need of immediate medical assistance until medical personnel or law enforcement arrive, and cooperating fully with those responding, or as otherwise determined appropriate by the Dean of Students or designee.
The university may also consider this behavior a mitigating factor when determining potential consequences that could arise against a student, student organization, faculty, or staff member (e.g., the fact that individuals sought help will be favorably considered in potential sanctioning).
This protocol applies only to University regulations and policies.  Law enforcement agencies, including the Florida Atlantic Police Department, may act within their jurisdictions in enforcing the laws enacted by the State of Florida, the United States, or any other locality, state or nation where jurisdiction may be invoked.
D. RETALIATION PROHIBITED
It is prohibited for any person to retaliate against a person because that person has been a victim of hazing, reported hazing, took steps of mitigation, refused to participate in hazing activities or behaviors, assisted in the investigation of hazing incident(s), or participated in the prosecution of any alleged hazing.
E. PREVENTION AND AWARENESS PROGRAMS
Hazing activities are not only associated with Greek organizations but may occur as a part of athletic teams, and other clubs and organizations on campus. As such, the University has implemented a variety of programs directed to educate students, faculty, and staff regarding safeguarding against hazing and reporting of incidents of hazing:
Students: Fit First Year Hazing Prevention 101—College Edition
https://www.fau.edu/healthwellness/fitfirstyear/
Greek Life: Fraternity & Sorority Life Hazing Prevention
https://www.fau.edu/fslife/programs/hazing/
Faculty and staff: For all new employees, an online training module is provided by Human Resources as part of the on-boarding process.
Campus Security Authorities: The Clery Act online training provided to university Campus Security Authorities includes a section on hazing prevention and reporting expectations.
The programs listed herein are subject to periodic review and may be updated or revised from time to time. For the most current information on University provided prevention and awareness programs, please visit the University’s website.
F. HAZING CRIME AND VIOLATION STATISTICS
JEANNE CLERY CAMPUS SAFETY ACT
As of October 2026, Florida Atlantic University provides hazing crime statistics in the Annual Security Report and Fire Safety Report. For more information, please see
https://www.fau.edu/police/clery/
.
CAMPUS HAZING TRANSPARENCY REPORT
Pursuant to the federal Stop Campus Hazing Act, the University publishes a report of responsible findings of hazing misconduct involving student organizations.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President, Student Affairs