SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14306
TITLE: Campus Signage
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.2.3 Campus Signage
Former Policy Number: 4.2.3
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to the University community and establishes standards and guidelines for permanent and temporary signs on University property.
POLICY STATEMENT:
In the interest of keeping our campuses as attractive as possible, avoiding costly repairs, and maintaining consistency, the following guidelines and standards are defined for all signage, including without limitation permanent signage, signage associated with major and minor projects, requests for changes to existing signage, and  temporary ground signs, banners, posters and notices on University facilities and grounds. These guidelines and standards are required, not only in consideration of the appearance of the University, but also to avoid marring or damaging building surfaces, signs, trees, and landscaping.
I. GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS FOR PERMANENT SIGNAGE
General
All permanent signage must generally conform to University standards defined in this policy.
Any deviation from the standards outlined must be approved by the Vice President for Administrative Affairs, prior to fabrication or posting.
All content is subject to University policy and regulations.
All signage related to the Naming of University Elements must first be approved as noted in University Policy 8.2, “
Naming of University Elements
”.
In accordance with University Policy 3.1.6,
Smoking and Tobacco Use on University Property
, smoking is not permitted on University property.  “No Smoking” signs will require approval through the Department of Space Utilization & Analysis (SUA)
Department specific signs must be approved by the Dean/Provost or area Vice President prior to submission to the SUA
All final signage designs with dimensions and typeface information, including signage associated with major projects, shall be submitted and approved through SUA prior to fabrication.
Signs incorporating the University logo must be approved by the Office of University Communications.
The University recognizes the generosity of its financial donors with donation plaques or signs. All related plaque or sign design or placement will be coordinated through SUA to ensure a unified appearance that is appropriate to the space displayed.
All requests for new signage, unless associated with a Major/Minor Project, must be initiated with SUA using the SUA Signage Request Form.
All installations and removal of signs, with the exception of temporary signage or signage associated with a major project, must be coordinated through SUA using the SUA Signage Request Form.
All installations and removal of temporary signage and banners must conform to the SUA Policy for Temporary Ground Sign/Banner Application Process.
All permanent and/or temporary signage installed without approval from SUA is subject to be removed at user’s expense.
SUA should be consulted for all sign placement or design not specifically covered by this policy.
Building Plaques
: Upon the completion of construction for a new building, a plaque shall be mounted on the exterior of the building near the main entrance or just inside the main entrance.  The plaque shall be fabricated in bronze and its size shall be generally 24” X 28”; the size and material of the plaque may be modified to complement the facility in which it is located.  The final approval of the plaque design and placement is to be approved by SUA.
The President or designee shall approve the final recognition text for each building plaque. The Building Plaque should include the following information:
State of Florida Governor
Board of Governors Chair
Building Name (as approved in accordance with University Naming Policy)
Date of Substantial Completion
Name of the University President
Members of the FAU Board of Trustees
Name of the Architectural Firm
Name of the Construction Management Firm
Special Recognition (i.e., donor)
Exterior Building Identification
:
Exterior Building Monument Signs
: Unless refurbishing current post and panel signs, all new building signage must adhere to standards defined in the University Cost Containment Guidelines.
Exterior Letter Specifications:
Exterior letter specifications should adhere to the University Cost Containment Guidelines.
Exterior Building Banners
: All exterior banners affixed to buildings as part of University campaigns, unless banner installation is incorporated as part of building design, must be coordinated through SUA for review and approval of content and to ensure quality of fabrication and installation.
Interior Building Signage
:
Building Entry
Building Directories
: are used to display the names of people and units, located in the building where it is mounted. They are to be mounted within view of the building’s main entry doors. The directory cabinet is to compliment the building architecture or to be an electronic directory as approved by SUA. Requestor will be responsible for funding the fabrication and installation of the directory.
Unit Directories
: are used to display information about a specific unit or units that are located in that building and/or any other university building. The unit cabinet is to compliment the building architecture or to be an electronic directory as approved by SUA.  Requestor will be responsible for funding the fabrication and installation of the directory.
Interior Letter Specifications
Letter Material, Thickness and Typeface
: Letters will be cut from ¼“ metal or other approved material. Font will be Optima Medium.
Letter Size
: Text shall be no more than 10” in height and must be proportional to location of signage and are subject to approval through SUA.
Letter Color
:  Letters will have a brushed aluminum finish for darker shade walls or a bronze finish for lighter shade walls.
Standard Interior Room Identification Signs, Room Regulations, Building Circulation and Restrooms
should follow University Cost Containment Guidelines
Vehicular Signs
: Recognitions of buildings to be placed on vehicular signs must be consistent with
SUA Vehicular Signage Guidelines Policy
.
Wall Graphics
: To ensure proper scale, location and general compatibility with the building décor, all graphics or lettering to be applied to any interior building surface must be approved by SUA prior to its installation.
Bulletin Boards & Display Cases
: The use of bulletin boards is governed by the FAU University Policy “Distribution of Printed Material”. Prior to ordering bulletin boards or display cases, approval of the size type and mounting location is required from SUA.
II. PLACEMENT OF TEMPORARY GROUND SIGNS AND BANNERS AND LIGHT POLE PERMANENT BANNERS
Walkways and Campus Grounds Locations
: Temporary ground signs and banners may be placed only at the approved locations noted in the
Temporary Ground Sign/Banner Application Policy
.
Coordination
: Final plans will be submitted to SUA or designee for partner campuses for approval in accordance with the
Temporary Ground Sign/Banner Application Policy
.
Temporary ground signs and banners may not be attached by any method to trees, shrubs, plantings, fences or any existing signs. The placement of stakes, posts or poles on the campus grounds for the purpose of erecting ground signs or banners is also prohibited unless approved by SUA or designee for partner campuses. Small temporary ground signs (in compliance with the
Temporary Ground Sign/Banner Application Policy
process) may be erected by the sponsor of special events, not more than 24 hours before the event.
Removal of Temporary Ground Signs
: Removal of temporary ground signs or banners will be done by Physical Plant, unless otherwise noted, within 24 hours after the event has taken place. Signs that are torn or disfigured will be removed or repaired by the sponsor.
Removal of Temporary Banners
: All banners will be removed by Physical Plant within 24 hours after the event has taken place. Banners that are torn or disfigured will be removed until repaired at the sole expense of the sponsor.
Violation
: Temporary ground signs and banners that are in violation of University policy or regulations will be removed by the Physical Plant department. Any violations by student organizations will be reported to the Dean of Student Affairs; violations by University departments will be reported to the appropriate Dean or Vice President. Organizations or departments in violations shall be held responsible for any damages and/or costs.
Information
: Anyone with questions concerning the placement or erection of temporary ground signs or banners should contact SUA.
Light Pole Banners
: All light pole banners must adhere to the procedures outlined in
SUA’s Light Pole Banner Policy
.
III. PLACEMENT OF POSTERS, NOTICES and TEMPORARY SIGNS
Classrooms, offices and corridor locations:
Posters and notices may be attached only to approved bulletin boards in the above areas. They may not be attached to any painted surface, glass, building fixtures, signs fences, trees, shrubs or on any interior walls or the exterior of any building, except where appropriate provisions have been made through SUA.
Temporary Signs/Displays
: Temporary signs shall not be used in place of standard signage. No surface-damaging adhesives (e.g. duct tape) or surface-penetrating fasteners are to be used to display temporary displays of any kind. All temporary signs need to be approved through SUA.
Easel and Sandwich Boards
: Easels, sandwich boards or any other free-standing signs are not to replace permanent signage. They may, however, be used under the following conditions:
In public circulation areas and in unit office areas as approved by the authorized unit
They may not obstruct required public circulation, or any permanent signs, mechanical, lighting or life safety features
Content must comply with all applicable University policy and regulations
Walkways and campus grounds locations
: Posters and notices may be placed only in the approved designated displays. Student Government election campaign signs may be displayed on the walkway monitors through Student Affairs or according to the Temporary Ground Sign/Banner Application Policy. Posters and notices may not be attached by any method to building exteriors, interior walls, trees, shrubs, plantings or existing signs. Marking buildings, sidewalks, roadways, or any other surface with chalk, paint or other material is strictly prohibited.
Removal of Posters and Notices
: All posters and notices must be dated when erected and removed by the sponsor within 24 hours after the event has taken place.  Posters and notices that are torn or disfigured should be removed or repaired. Posters and notices for on-going events must be removed after 30 days from the date erected.
Violations
: Posters, notices and other methods of distributing material or information that are in violation of Florida Atlantic University regulations will be removed by Physical Plant. Any violations by student organizations will be reported to the Dean of Student Affairs; violations by University departments will be reported to the appropriate Dean or Vice President. Organizations or departments in violation of these regulations shall be held responsible for any damages and/or costs.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President for Administrative Affairs
Related Information
Facilities Management AVP Policies & Procedure
Space Utilization & Analysis OSUA Policies & Procedure