SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14310
TITLE: Contracting for Design and Construction Services
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.2.7 Contracting for Design and Construction Services
Former Policy Number: 4.2.7
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to the selection, considerations, and contracting for Design and Construction Services for University facilities. To the extent any existing policies, guidelines, processes, or other matters within the University conflict with any provisions herein or other applicable authorities, those items shall automatically be amended for consistency with this policy and such authorities.
POLICY STATEMENT:
The University may employ procedures to contract for professional services and contractors for the planning, design, and construction of new facilities, or for additions, remodeling, renovation, maintenance, or repairs to existing facilities (“Design and Construction Services”), that include, but are not limited to competitive bids, design-build, construction management entities, program management entities, and day labor contracts, as more specifically set forth herein. Amendments to this policy shall require the approval of the University Board of Trustees as required by Florida Board of Governors (BOG) Regulations
14.006
and
14.008
.
DEFINITIONS:
This policy adopts by incorporation the construction program definitions set forth in BOG Regulation
14.001
.
PROCEDURES:
1.
Construction Management Entities
When selecting a construction management entity that would be responsible for all scheduling and coordination in both design and construction phases and is generally responsible for the successful, timely, and economical completion of the construction project, the entity must consist of or contract with licensed or registered professionals for the specific fields or areas of construction to be performed.
The construction management entity shall be selected through a competitive procurement process as prescribed herein and as otherwise prescribed by the Vice President of Administrative Affairs or designee (collectively, the “VPAA”). The criteria for selecting a construction management entity shall not unfairly penalize an entity that has relevant experience in the delivery of construction projects of similar size and complexity by methods of delivery other than construction management.
The construction management entity, after having been selected, may be required to offer a guaranteed maximum price and/or a guaranteed completion date; in which case, the construction management entity must secure an appropriate surety bond pursuant to section 255.05, Florida Statutes, and must hold construction subcontracts.
With respect to the guaranteed maximum price and/or guaranteed completion date, the University may negotiate, simultaneously or otherwise, with the selected construction management entity, as well as any other construction management entities that were short-listed during the competitive procurement process.
2.
Program Management Entities
When selecting a program management entity that would act as the agent of the University and would be responsible for schedule control, cost control, and coordination in providing or procuring planning, design, and construction services, the program management entity must consist of or contract with licensed or registered professionals for the specific areas of design or construction to be performed. The program management entity may retain necessary design professionals as prescribed by the VPAA.
The program management entity shall be selected through a competitive procurement process as prescribed herein and as otherwise prescribed by the VPAA. The criteria for selecting a program management entity shall not unfairly penalize an entity that has relevant experience in the delivery of construction programs of similar size and complexity by methods of delivery other than program management.
The program management entity, after having been selected, may be required to offer a guaranteed maximum price and/or a guaranteed completion date, in which case the program management entity must secure an appropriate surety bond pursuant to section 255.05, Florida Statutes, and must hold design and construction subcontracts.
With respect to the guaranteed maximum price and/or guaranteed completion date, the University may negotiate, simultaneously or otherwise, with the selected program management entity, as well as any other program management entities that were short-listed during the competitive procurement process.
3.
Day-Labor Contracts.
Day-labor contracts, as defined by the BOG, shall be administered by the VPAA in accordance with BOG requirements.
4.
Construction Techniques.
Contractors, design-build firms, contract management entities, program management entities, or any other person under contract to construct facilities or major additions to facilities may use any construction techniques allowed by contract and not prohibited by law, including, but not limited to, those techniques known as fast-track construction scheduling, use of components, and systems building process.
5.
Registered Architects
. Except as otherwise provided in BOG regulation and section 481.229, Florida Statutes, the services of a registered architect must be used for the development of plans for the erection, enlargement, or alteration of any educational facility. The services of a registered architect are not required for a minor renovation project for which the construction cost is less than $150,000 or for the placement or hookup of relocatable educational facilities that conform with standards adopted under section 1013.37, Florida Statutes. Compliance with building code requirements and assurances that these structures are adequately anchored for wind resistance are necessary as required by law.
6.
Professional Services.
For Professional Services (architects, professional engineers, or registered land surveyors), the contract may be negotiated using the Department of Management Services (DMS) approved fee schedule as a guideline for individual projects or maximum hourly rates. The fee schedule to be used shall be negotiated based on the level of complexity and the scope of the services required, and shall be based on historic fee data. The basic fee schedule shall relate the fees to the complexity and size of the project and provide a guideline for negotiation of a fair, competitive and reasonable fee for the services to be provided.
7.
Construction Direct Purchase Program.
Commodities to be incorporated into any public work, which are procured by the University in accordance with the requirements of the University's direct purchase program, are not subject to any further competitive solicitation. “Public work” is defined as projects for public use or enjoyment, financed and owned by the government, in which private persons undertake the obligation to do a specific piece of work that involves installing tangible personal property in such a manner that it becomes a part of a public facility, including land, improvement to land, building, structure, or other fixed site and related infrastructure thereon owned or operated by a governmental entity where governmental or public activities are conducted. The term “public work” is not restricted to the repair, alteration, improvement, or construction of real property and fixed works, although such projects are included within the term.
8.
Competitive Selection and Negotiation.
For any services required which have been publicly announced as provided in BOG Regulation 14.007, including, but not limited to, professional services, continuing contracts, construction management services or design - build, the VPAA shall appoint a selection committee to make recommendations. Those appointed shall serve throughout the selection process.
The Committee should consist of at least three members, the majority of which have demonstrable experience in the selection of professional services firms or education in construction, engineering, architecture, or other related discipline, and comprised as follows:
At least one facilities professional from the University Facilities Management Office;
One facilities professional who is not required to be a current University Facilities Management Office; and
Additional members, based on the special needs of the project, as prescribed by the VPAA.
Prior to each selection, the VPAA shall determine the eligibility under Florida law of each firm to perform the services required.
The selection committee shall evaluate eligible firms applying pursuant to the procurement parameters as determined for each particular project by the VPAA, that may include, but are not limited to, the experience and qualifications of the firms; price, cost or fees; approach to the project; past performance; ability to meet time and budget requirements; location; and recent, current and projected workloads.
For construction management services and for design-build services selected based on qualifications, the contract shall be negotiated to provide for preconstruction fees based on hourly rates, and construction related services to include profit, overhead, direct management costs, and establishing a guaranteed maximum price.
For design-build services selected based on a design-build proposal, the contract shall be negotiated based on the design-build proposal, to provide for a guaranteed maximum price for all professional services and construction costs which shall include reimbursable costs plus fees for design, project management, overhead and profit.
Committee proceedings will be open to the public as and when required by law.
Should the University be unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with any of the selected firms, additional firms may be selected, all proposals may be rejected, or a new selection process may be initiated at the University’s discretion and in accordance with the competitive procurement process prescribed herein or otherwise by the VPAA.
The notice and protest procedures set forth in BOG Regulation 18.002 shall be applicable to all competitive solicitations relating to the procurement of goods and services for the construction of University capital improvement projects.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President for Administrative Affairs
Related Information
Facilities Management AVP Policies & Procedure
Space Utilization & Analysis OSUA Policies & Procedure