SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14300
TITLE: Use of University Automobiles
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.1.3 Use of University Automobiles
Former Policy Number: 4.1.4
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to all members of the university community, including all trustees, faculty, staff, students, volunteers, contractors, and other users of university automobiles.
DEFINITIONS:
Authorized drivers:
A trustee, officer, employee, agent, contractor, volunteer or other person authorized by a university officer to drive a university automobile.
University officer:
A person serving in the position of Vice President or higher at the university.
University automobile:
A land motor vehicle designed and licensed for use on public roads that is owned, leased, or rented by the university.
POLICY:
University automobiles shall be used only by authorized drivers for official university business unless otherwise authorized by a university officer.
University automobiles may be used in emergency situations where the protection of life or property is involved and there is no other means of transportation available.
Individuals other than the authorized drivers may be permitted to travel in university vehicles operated by authorized drivers if there is no additional expense to the university and in conjunction with authorized university business.  Such travel can be authorized by the head of a Department or Division or their designees.
Unless otherwise authorized by a university officer, university vehicles may not be taken to an authorized drivers home unless the authorized driver is departing upon or returning from authorized travel away from their base of operations under circumstances which make it impractical to use other means of transportation, or when the authorized driver needs the use of the vehicle after completion of a regular work day in order to conduct university business on the same day or before their usual working hour on the next business day.
Unless otherwise authorized by a university officer, university vehicles will be operated only by authorized drivers who possess a valid driver’s license in accordance with Florida law. All supervisors are required to maintain on file a current valid driver’s license which has been on file for no more than 12 months.  Any department operating or leasing 15 passenger vans or operating vehicles which require a commercial driver’s license should contact Risk Management for additional requirements.
The university holds bodily injury/property damage automobile liability insurance in certain circumstances in accordance with state law. The university provides no comprehensive or collision damage insurance.  Any comprehensive or collision damage is the responsibility of the applicable university department. In the event damage is caused by a third party, contact Risk Management for possible recovery. If a department desires to procure comprehensive or collision coverage, contact Risk Management for assistance.
If you are using your personal automobile on university business and you are involved in an accident that causes damage, your personal insurance is primary over any other university-held insurance. In addition, you are responsible for repair of your personal automobile.  The university will not provide reimbursement for repair costs for damage to your personal vehicle. Please consult your insurance agent to determine if you have adequate insurance coverage based on the usage of your personal vehicle for university business.
If university automobiles are approved for non-authorized university business by a university officer, contact Risk Management and Human Resources to ensure proper insurance and perquisites are in place.
Authorized drivers are responsible for any university automobile released to their control until said vehicle is returned to University control.
The University is not responsible for fines or traffic violations incurred by while operating a University automobile.
University automobiles may not be taken outside the State of Florida, unless otherwise authorized by a university officer.
University automobiles may not be used for trips requiring more than three days absence from their usual base of operations, unless otherwise authorized by a university officer.
University automobiles may not be used for transportation to any airport or other terminal when the length of a trip requires overnight parking, unless otherwise authorized by a university officer.
All occupants of university automobiles and all personal automobiles operated on university business shall properly use the seat belts or occupant restraint system provided. If an accident resulting in injury to an employee occurs and the employee is not using the seat belts or occupant restraint system provided and the failure to use the seat belts or occupant restraint system provided contribute to injuries received, worker's compensation benefits may be reduced under the provisions of Section 440.09(4), Florida Statutes.
All university automobiles and all personal automobiles operated on university business shall at all times be operated in a safe and courteous manner.
All university automobiles and all personal automobiles operated on university business shall operate in compliance with all applicable federal, state or local laws and ordinances. All fines and penalties resulting from such improper use of a vehicle are the personal responsibility of the vehicle operator.
Any person who is required to operate a university automobile as part of his or her job responsbilities shall notify their supervisor immediately if their license has expired or been suspended or revoked.
The use of headphones, ear-buds, cell phones, smart phones, hand-held computers, smart pads, pagers, or other similar voice or text-enabled devices by drivers of university automobiles is prohibited unless: (i) the driver has removed the university automobile from traffic and come to a complete stop or (ii) the phone or electronic device is being used for audio purposes only with a hands-free accessory or device.
The use of any tobacco product inside a university automobile is prohibited.
The University Police Department (UPD), as first responders, operate state owned vehicles under the most current General Order. This General Order is up to date with the latest professional standards as indicated by accrediting bodies. UPD will operate state owned vehicles within their General Orders and will be responsible for the enforcement of those applicable General Orders.
SANCTIONS:
Violations of the policies and laws described herein by an employee or student are grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination or expulsion in accordance with applicable university and the Florida Board of Governors regulations and/or collective bargaining agreements. Such disciplinary actions may also include reprimand or suspension. Violations of these policies and laws by any other users are grounds for terminating their use of university automobiles and other appropriate sanctions.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President, Facilities & University Architect
Related Information
Environmental Health and Safety Policies and Procedures