SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14263
TITLE: University Policy Development
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
7.9 University Policy Development
Former Policy Number: 1.1
I. INTRODUCTION:
The Florida Atlantic University (“University”) Policies and Procedures Manual includes university-wide policies and procedures.
University policies and procedures should be organized and drafted using a standard format as outlined by this policy. The University Policies and Procedures Review Committee (UPPRC) constitutes the principal body for reviewing and managing University policies and procedures.  Policy-initiating authorities may propose policies and procedures to the UPPRC.  All policies and procedures require review by the UPPRC and the Executive Leadership Team (ELT). Unless otherwise stated, the President must approve all policies and procedures prior to implementation and inclusion in the manual. Approval of and amendments to this “University Policy Development” policy shall require approval by the University Board of Trustees (BOT).
II.  APPLICABILITY:
This policy on University policies is applicable to all members of the University community. The University Policies and Procedures Manual includes those policies and procedures that are generally applicable to more than one college or unit of the University or matters of such importance that the President deems appropriate for a university-wide policy. Matters pertaining only to the internal procedures of a given college or unit are not within the scope of the manual or this policy and must be obtained from the specific college or unit. However, in the event of an inconsistency between a provision in a college or unit policy and a provision in a University policy or regulation, the University policy or regulation shall prevail.
III.  POLICY STATEMENT:
The University is governed by federal and state statutes and regulations, Florida Board of Governors and University BOT and Florida regulations and policies, and other applicable laws, regulations, and collective bargaining agreements. However, there are many occasions where such authorities do not provide specific guidance or do not offer procedures or implementation directives necessary for efficient University operations. Where this occurs, the University must adopt policies and procedures to dictate and guide the operations of the University.
This policy establishes procedures for the creation, issuance, review, and publication of policies at the University; ensures consistency in policy creation and implementation; and centralizes policies for ease of reference, application, and enforcement. To the extent that there is a conflict between any University policy and procedure and a state and federal statute, regulation, rule or policy of the Florida Atlantic University BOT or Florida Board of Governors or other applicable law or collective bargaining agreement, the state and federal statute, regulation, rule or policy of the Florida Atlantic University BOT or Florida Board of Governors or other applicable law or collective bargaining agreement will prevail. The University Policies and Procedures Manual is the official repository of University policies and procedures. It may be reviewed in the Office of the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer (CCO) or on the University’s website.  Having an official policies and procedures manual for the University ensures that University-level policies and procedures will be consistent and subject to appropriate review before implementation.
The President, ELT, CCO, and UPPRC are the University’s policy-initiating authorities.
The UPPRC and the ELT must give preliminary review to all University policies and procedures. The President must give final approval to all University policies and procedures. University policies and procedures should be formulated and drafted according to a template to ensure consistency and organized to ensure ease of reference.  Specific implementation directives are provided in Section V below.
IV.  DEFINITIONS:
Executive Leadership Team.
Chaired by the University President, the ELT consists of senior administrators who are individually and collectively responsible to guide a shared vision and lead institutional operations for the advancement of the University.
Policy.
A statement of management philosophy or practice established to provide direction and assistance to the University community in the conduct of University business or activities. University policies apply to all units, departments, or divisions of the University with respect to their operations at the University. Policies must not conflict with statutes, regulations, or other laws applicable to the University.
Procedure.
A statement that prescribes categories of action applicable to all units, departments, or divisions with respect to their operations at the University, to be taken to conform to established policies, allowing for the orderly and consistent implementation of policies.
Responsible Authority:
The Vice President with primary responsibility for the subject matter of a given policy or procedure and its administration and interpretation. The responsible authority assesses effectiveness of the policy or procedure and monitors the regulatory landscape for any changes in law or regulation which would require a change in policy.
University Policies and Procedures Review Committee.
The committee designated and appointed by the President to act as the central body for reviewing and managing University-wide policies. The committee will be chaired by the CCO. The committee will include representatives from the following divisions or equities: Academic Affairs, Administrative Affairs, Athletics, College of Medicine, Environmental, Health, & Safety/ Risk Management, Faculty, Financial Affairs, Government Relations, Human Resources, Information Technology, Institutional Advancement, Office of General Counsel, Public Affairs, Research, Student Affairs, and Student Government. Additionally, the President may appoint any other person the President deems appropriate. The CCO has the authority to waive participation of any member for a particular UPPRC meeting.
V.  PROCEDURES:
A. Initiation of New Policies and Procedures
Initiation of new policies and procedures occurs when the need for a new policy and procedure is identified by the President, the ELT, CCO, or a representative of the UPPRC.
(1) Working with a representative on the UPPRC, the appropriate Vice President, or CCO, or their designees, oversees the creation of a draft of the policy and procedure, or revision thereof, following the procedures described in Subsection C below. If a policy and procedure fall within more than one section of the University Policies and Procedures Manual, any affected unit may assume the responsibility for drafting and reviewing the policy and procedure. The individual who sponsors and oversees the drafting of a new or revised policy and procedure is the responsible authority.
(2)  The responsible authority must coordinate with appropriate stakeholders and accountable entities during the drafting phase for new or revised policies.
(3) When the responsible authority has finished drafting the policy and procedure, that draft should be submitted to the UPPRC for review. The policy will be placed on the next available agenda of the UPPRC, and the responsible authority or designee will be invited to present the policy to the committee. The responsible authority should be prepared to answer questions regarding the policy. While every effort will be made to have the UPPRC review a draft policy and procedure, or revision thereof, circumstances may require bypassing the UPPRC’s review directly to the ELT in order to facilitate a timely implementation of a policy.
(4) After the proposed policy and procedure has been reviewed by the UPPRC, the CCO will send a copy of the proposed policy and procedure to the ELT for review.
(5) Once the proposed policy and procedure is reviewed by the ELT and approved by the President, and the University BOT, if applicable, the CCO will incorporate the new policy and procedure into the Policies and Procedures Manual.
B. Review, Revision, and Retirement of Existing Policies and Procedures
Each responsible authority must complete a baseline review of all current University policies and procedures by December 1, 2026. Once the baseline review is complete, every policy and procedure must be reviewed every three years to ensure that the policy and procedure remain current and necessary.
The procedures to initiate and review revisions to existing policies and procedures, and to retire policies, are as follows:
(1) The need for revisions to an existing policy and procedure, or to eliminate a policy and procedure, may be identified by the President, the ELT, CCO, a representative of the UPPRC, or by the authority responsible for the policy and procedure.
(2) If the need for revision is identified, the responsible authority must review the existing policy and procedure to determine whether it continues to reflect current practice and responds to a need in the University community. If the responsible authority identifies that changes to the policy and procedure are required, then the responsible authority will prepare a draft of a revised policy and procedure in a format that highlights the proposed changes. If the responsible authority identifies that the policy and procedure is no longer needed and should be retired, then the responsible authority will prepare a written statement to that effect for submission to the UPPRC. The Policy Action Form will accompany any review of proposed or current University policy.
(3) If no changes to a policy or procedure are identified by the responsible authority as part of the regular review process, the responsible authority will report their determination to the UPPRC. The CCO will ensure that standard reviews of all University policies and procedures are complete.
C. Drafting of Policies and Procedures
A standardized format will be used for University policies and procedures and will include certain minimum information. To guide in that effort, the UPPRC has created a policy template to be used in drafting policies and procedures.  Policies and procedures should be submitted on the policy template and should contain the policy number, policy name, the responsible authority, the dates of initial adoption and revisions, applicability, a policy statement, definitions, responsibilities, and procedures. Implementing stakeholders should ensure that the policies successfully implement applicable laws and regulations. Policies and procedures may also contain general policy or background information, contacts, and related information, documents or forms, as necessary for a full explanation of the policy and its application and procedures.
D. Dissemination of Information about New or Revised Policies and Procedures
Information about new, revised, or eliminated policies and procedures may be promulgated in accordance with the University’s Public Affairs guidance.
E. Maintenance of the Policies and Procedures Manual
The Chair of the Policies and Procedures Review Committee will be responsible for maintaining the master list of policies and procedures within the Policies and Procedures Manual. A copy of each approved policy and procedure will be kept on file. The policies and procedures will be maintained on the University website. Policies and procedures will be numbered and organized by topic.
VI. FORMS:
(1) Policy Template
(2) Policy Action Form
VII. RELATED INFORMATION:
Colleges, centers, and institutes may have policies and procedures specific to their operations, but those will not be included in the University’s Policies and Procedures Manual. Any such policies and procedures must not conflict with and are subordinate to statutes, federal and state regulations, regulations of the Board of Governors or the University BOT, and University policies and procedures, and any approved University collective bargaining agreements. Colleges must use the template outlined above for their policies and organize their policies in a manual for ease of reference.
VIII. INITIATING AUTHORITY:
CCO