SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14279
TITLE: Signature Authority
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
9.1 Signature Authority
Former Policy Number: 11.1
APPLICABILITY:
The purpose of this policy is to provide clear guidelines regarding the authority to sign contracts, agreements, letters of understanding, and other documents or contracts regarding legal assurances, commitments, and obligations on behalf of Florida Atlantic University and its constituent units (colleges, divisions, departments, programs, etc., collectively, the “FAU System”).  This policy does not apply to signature authority on behalf of FAU direct-support organizations, foundations, alumni associations, or other related but separate entities. Signature authority for such entities shall be governed by each organization’s own signature delegations.
POLICY STATEMENT:
The University Board of Trustees’ regulations and policies provide that the President is the chief executive officer responsible for the organization, operation, and administration of the FAU System.  The President's authority includes the approval and execution of all documents on behalf of the University consistent with law; Board of Governors and Board of Trustees resolutions, regulations, and policies; and University policies and procedures (“Applicable Legal Authorities”), and in the best interest of the University.  Such documents may include contracts, agreements, letters of understanding, and other items regarding legal assurances, commitments, and obligations on behalf of the University.
The President hereby delegates to the following University officials (including those in an interim or acting capacity) the authority to sign certain described contracts and other documents, subject to the Applicable Legal Authorities, as follows:
All Vice Presidents are authorized to approve and execute contracts (other than contracts for the third-party use of University property or facilities) in their respective areas of supervision with financial implications not to exceed One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000).  In addition, the Vice Presidents listed in subsection 1-5 below have authority to approve and execute contracts (other than contracts for the third-party use of University property or facilities) in excess of One Hundred and Fifty Thousand Dollars ($150,000), but not to exceed Ten Million Dollars ($10,000,000), as follows:
The Vice President of Financial Affairs and Chief Financial Officer, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute all contracts within his or her area of supervision and all contracts that involve the fiscal affairs of the FAU System.
The Provost and Vice President for Academic Affairs, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute all contracts within his or her area of supervision and all contracts relating to academic affairs including, without limitation, all instructional, internship, and other educational and clinical affiliation, services, and training contracts received on behalf of the FAU System.
The Vice President for Research, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute all contracts within his or her area of supervision including, without limitation, research contracts, solicitations and acceptances of research grants, representations and certifications incidental to research contracts and grants, agreements related to intellectual property, and use of the sponsored research exemption.
The Chief Operating Officer and Vice President for Administrative Affairs, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute contracts within his or her area of supervision and all contracts that involve the business and administrative operations of the FAU System, including without limitation, authorized capital outlay projects and related services.
The Vice President of Legal Affairs and General Counsel, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute all contracts for legal and related services, and all legal and governance compliance certifications on behalf of the FAU System.
The Chief Operating Officer and Vice President of Administrative Affairs, or designee(s) is authorized to approve and execute all contracts for the third-party use of University property or facilities.  Additionally, the Vice President for Student Affairs, or designee(s) is authorized to approve and execute all contracts for the third-party use of University property or facilities intended for third-party use associated with the Division of Student Affairs (e.g., the Student Union, Housing, Campus Recreation).
The Director of Procurement, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute all contracts for the FAU System for licenses, the acquisition or provision of commodities, goods, equipment, and services, and leases of real and personal property and equipment rendered to or by the FAU System with financial implications not to exceed Five-Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000).
The Dean of the University Library, or designee(s), is authorized to approve and execute purchase orders for the acquisition of copyrighted and single source instruction materials, tapes, publications, manuscripts, films, and personal library collections acquired from library resource funds with financial implications not to exceed Five-Hundred Thousand Dollars ($500,000).
University employees who are issued University purchasing cards are authorized to use those cards in accordance with the terms of the University Purchasing Card Manual.
No person, except as provided elsewhere by the Applicable Legal Authorities or as delegated by the University President herein, is authorized to enter into any agreement, obligation, program, or other legally-enforceable commitment which purports to bind the FAU System. The President’s delegations of signature authority herein shall not limit or divest the President’s right to exercise any such authority.
FAU officers, employees, volunteers, affiliates, students, or other persons who do not have signature authority pursuant to this policy or Applicable Legal Authorities and who sign contracts or other documents of agreement or commitment that purport to bind the FAU System may be held personally responsible and liable for any unauthorized signatures.
DEFINITIONS:
Contract:  An agreement between two or more persons or entities that creates an obligation to do or not to do a particular thing.  A contract does not require the payment of money or other compensation to create an obligation.  A contract includes a “click-through” agreement on a third-party website, a memorandum of understanding, and other legally-binding obligations, regardless of their title or format.
PROCEDURES:
All signature designations authorized by this policy, whether temporary or long-term in nature, shall be in writing.  A copy of such written designation shall be forwarded to the General Counsel’s Office for further retention.
All contracts must be submitted to the Office of the General Counsel for review and approval as to form and legality prior to execution by an authorized University official.  Sufficient time must be allowed for the General Counsel’s office and the authorized signing authorities to review and process all contracts so that proper legal review and document execution can be accomplished prior to the commencement of contemplated activities and expiration of deadlines.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Regulation 6.008 (Purchasing)
,
Procurement Manual
,
Credit Card Guidelines & Manual
;
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President, Legal Affairs & General Counsel
Related Information
FAU Credit Card User Guidelines and Manual
FAU Procurement - Purchase Guidelines and Manual
FAU Regulation 6.008 Procurement