SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14276
TITLE: Naming Of University Elements
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
8.2 Naming Of University Elements
Former Policy Number: 1.8
APPLICABILITY:
This policy delineates actions and standards that must be taken and followed in assigning or changing names of University Elements, including those actions taken in connection with honoring individuals in such respects.  This policy does not apply to the naming of Florida Atlantic University Foundation, Inc. (“Foundation”) funds, scholarships, endowed faculty positions, library acquisitions, or other similar endeavors.
POLICY STATEMENT:
The University will consider requests for donor and non-donor naming opportunities for University Elements.  These opportunities may honor individuals (living or deceased), groups, events, places and others when such will further the mission of the University.  In such cases where a person is being honored, he or she should be an individual who, in the judgment of the University, exhibits exceptional personal accomplishments or character.
The President will have final approval on all such requests, except for those to name a University Facility after an individual or group.  The University Board of Trustees (“UBOT”) must approve all requests to name a University Facility after individuals or groups.  The President may also, at their sole discretion, chose to submit any naming to the UBOT for their approval.
A. Gift/Donor Considerations:
Naming proposals should be consistent with University policies and reflect not only the donor’s appropriate financial support, but also the donor’s commitment to the mission, vision and objectives of the University.  Gift-related naming of buildings or facilities requires a donation which makes a significant contribution to the cost of the building or facility.  Further guidelines for gift-related naming opportunities can be found in the
Foundation’s Gift Acceptance Policy
.
B. Non-Gift/Non-Donor Considerations:
University Elements may also be named in honor of an individual or group, without consideration of a gift, who has made a significant contribution to the University or to the State of Florida or to the fields of education, government, science or human betterment and who are of recognized accomplishment and character.  Honorary naming for a University Facility is not permitted for an active State University System member, including staff, faculty, students, or trustees.
University Elements may also be named or re-named other than for individuals or groups when such will further the mission of the institution.  Any such requests which do not arise from donors should generally originate from the head of the department or division most affiliated with the University Element to be named, a member of the Executive Leadership Team, or the President.
Names assigned to University Elements are intended to be enduring unless otherwise provided at the time of naming; provided, however, that namings after for-profit corporate entities should not generally be longer than ten (10) years unless approved by the UBOT.  Changes should be made only when significant changes occur to the property (such as major renovation or demolition),  upon agreement of the honoree or donor (if possible),  as a result of other extenuating circumstances, including those which may impact the personal accomplishments or character of the honoree, or which otherwise violate this policy or agreement with FAU or the FAU Foundation.  All of these changes will be taken only after consideration by the University President or the UBOT, as applicable, in their sole and absolute discretion.
DEFINITIONS:
Executive Leadership Team:
Chaired by the University President, the Executive Leadership Team consists of senior administrators who are individually and collectively responsible to guide a shared vision and lead institutional operations for the advancement of the University.
University Element:
Includes any University Facility, as defined below, as well as institutes, centers, programs; endowed deanships and athletics coaching positions; interior and exterior facility spaces such as theaters, auditoriums, classrooms, laboratories, lobbies, lawns or courtyards under University control; and other similar elements.
University Facility:
Any building, road, bridge, park, recreational complex or other similar facility or any  campus, special purpose center, instructional site or special purpose site (as defined in
Florida Board of Governors Regulation 8.009
) and any school, college, or other academic unit.
PROCEDURES:
Requests to exercise naming opportunities should be submitted in writing through the appropriate Dean, Provost, Vice President, or University constituent assembly (i.e., Faculty Senate or Student Government) to the Vice President, Institutional Advancement (for donor opportunities), or to the Vice President, Administrative Affairs (for non-donor opportunities), for consideration and recommendation. Requests should provide the rationale on how the University’s mission will be furthered and, if applicable, document the contribution, accomplishment and character of the individual or group to be honored.
Upon review of such requests, the Vice President, Institutional Advancement, or the Vice President, Administrative Affairs, as applicable, will decide whether to forward the naming request to the Executive Leadership Team and the President.  Upon review of the request and recommendation from the Executive Leadership Team, the President may approve or deny the request, in their sole and absolute discretion.
In cases of naming a University Facility after an individual or group, and any other naming in the President’s sole discretion, the President will forward any approved recommendation to the UBOT for its decision as a noticed, non-consent agenda item. The recommendation will include statements on: (a) the relationship of the request to the mission of the institution and (b) the contribution, accomplishment and character of the individual or group for whom the University Facility (or University Element, if applicable) is proposed to be named.
Each naming opportunity should be presented with the appropriate funding budget to allow for fabrication and installation of exterior building letters, pedestrian building signs, changes to the vehicular directional signs, and updates to campus maps.  New signs, plaques or markers shall conform to University policy and design standards relating to campus graphics and shall be coordinated through the University’s Department of Facilities Management (UDFM).  Implementation of new building designations shall generally be accomplished annually during the summer sessions in preparation for the new fall semester.
These policies and procedures shall be applicable to both naming and re-naming opportunities and shall otherwise be in accordance with applicable Florida Law, including Section 267.062, Florida Statutes and
Florida Board of Governors Regulation 9.005
.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President, Institutional Advancement
Related Information
Florida Board of Governors Regulation 9.005
Florida Board of Governors Regulation 8.009.
Student Activities and Involvement