SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14299
TITLE: Children in the Workplace
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.1.2 Children in the Workplace
Former Policy Number: 4.1.3
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to all members of the university community, including all students, faculty, staff and all visitors, contractors and guests to the university, campuses, facilities, or other external work sites. Individual university campuses, facilities or organizations may establish more specific procedures consistent with this policy.
This policy does not prohibit children and family members from being in the workplace during university-sponsored events, camps, and programs intended for children and/or families or intended for community participation.
This policy does not apply to children working or volunteering at FAU. Contact the Department of Human Resources for more information on utilizing children as employees or volunteers.
This policy does not prohibit children enrolled at FAU’s pre-secondary school(s) and educational research center(s) from being in authorized areas of the university with proper adult supervision.
DEFINITIONS:
Children:  Individuals under the age of eighteen years who are not registered FAU students or FAU employees or volunteers.
Hazards:  Chemicals, animals, laboratory equipment (to include electrical, mechanical, and/or hydraulic equipment) or any other potentially harmful object, procedure or environment (fume hoods, storage rooms, etc.) that could cause physical injury or adverse health effects.
Hazardous Locations:  Hazardous locations include, but are not limited to, the following types of locations and adjoining areas, which have direct access to such locations: laboratories, animal areas, workshops, warehouses, commercial kitchens, laundries, construction areas, file rooms, mechanical rooms, roofs, confined spaces, maintenance and janitorial rooms, boats, service vehicles, and golf carts.
POLICY STATEMENT:
Florida Atlantic University strives to be a family-friendly environment and encourages children and their parents to participate in various recreational and athletic family-oriented programs on our campuses year-round.  In addition, all members of the University community are encouraged to remain sensitive to the needs of working parents, and supervisors and managers should be flexible in granting accrued leave to employees who need to make unplanned childcare arrangements.
As an employer, however, the University cannot permit employees or students to provide childcare at the work site, office, lab or classroom. Workspace is not designed with the safety of children in mind. Employees and supervisors must consider issues of safety, confidentiality, disruption of operations and services, disruption to other employees and students, appropriateness, and the liability posed by children in the workplace. There are safety hazards and potential liability exposures in the event of accident or injury.  While children may be brought to the workplace for brief visits, it must be recognized that it is not appropriate to bring children to work, or class, as a substitute for planning for regular childcare while at work, or in class.
However, some exceptions apply. With approval of supervisors or supervising faculty, children may be brought to the workplace by an employee or student in the event of an emergency and where no other alternatives exist. In such cases, children must remain under continuous supervision by their parent or guardian. Approval is at the sole discretion of the supervisor or supervising faculty and there is no burden of justification for turning down the request.
The child’s presence must not disrupt the work or school environment or negatively impact productivity. Children are not allowed in areas containing confidential information. Sick children are not allowed in the workplace.
Violations of this policy by faculty, staff and students may be grounds for disciplinary action up to and including termination or expulsion in accordance with applicable university and Florida Board of Governors regulations and/or collective bargaining agreements.  Such disciplinary actions may also include reprimand, suspension, or other sanctions. Violations of this policy by visitors, contractors, guests and other third parties may be grounds for terminating or suspending their access to and/or use of university property.
The following stipulations are established to minimize potential liability, risk of harm and decreased productivity due to distractions and disruptions:
Except as stated above:
Employees are not permitted to bring children to the workplace while on duty.
Students are not permitted to bring their children into the classroom while class is in session.
All children at FAU must be supervised to avoid risk of injury. Children shall not be left unattended for any period of time.
Children are not permitted in hazardous locations unless: (i) a child is participating in a supervised program sponsored by FAU, such as a tour through a building or field trip, and (ii) permission slips indicating informed consent and waiver of liability are signed by the child’s parent or legal guardian.
Where children are present in a research laboratory for the purposes stated in paragraph 4 above, the EH&S policy on
Minors in Research Laboratories or Animal Facilities
shall apply in addition to this policy.  Contact Environmental Health and Safety at (561) 297-3129, for further information.
Children are not permitted to ride in university vehicles unless participating in an FAU-sponsored activity or traveling in a vehicle which has been issued to the parent.  Reference the University Policy 4.1.4, Use of University Vehicles Policy, for more information on the use of university vehicles.
Children are not permitted to ride in university golf carts or utility vehicles, unless participating in an FAU-sponsored activity.  Reference the University Policy 4.1.6, Golf Carts and Utility Vehicles Policy, for more information on the use of university golf carts and utility vehicles.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Employees, Students, Visitors and Contracted Service Providers: Responsible for compliance with the requirements of this policy.
The Human Resources Department: Has oversight over the employment or volunteer status of minors in the workplace. Responsible for enforcement regarding staff compliance with this policy.
The Office of the Dean of Students:  Responsible for enforcement regarding student compliance with this policy.
The Office of Environmental Health and Safety:  Responsible for enforcement of this policy regarding visitor and contractor/vendor compliance with this policy.
The Office of General Counsel: Responsible for compliance with applicable laws and regulations regarding minors in the workplace.
Office of the Provost: Responsible for enforcement regarding faculty compliance with this policy.
Supervisors and Supervising Faculty: Responsible for enforcing requirements within the workspaces and learning environments.
PROCEDURES:
For employees, limited exceptions may be considered for employees in the case of an emergency or other exigent circumstance if the employee has received permission from his or her supervisor, and only if no hazards are present in the area.
For students, limited exceptions may be considered in the case of an emergency or other exigent circumstance if the student has received permission from the supervising faculty member, and only if no hazards are present in the area.
For minors participating in an FAU-sponsored program that necessitates access to hazardous locations on campus, contact the sponsoring department for more information on permission slips indicating informed consent and waiver of liability or contact the Office of the General Counsel at (561) 297-3007.
Report violations of this policy through the Environmental Health and Safety Hazard Reporting Link or via e-mail at
ehs@fau.edu
. Contact the Office of Environmental Health and Safety at (561)297-3129 for more information.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President for Administrative Affairs
Related Information
EHS - Safety Hazard / Near Miss Reporting Form
Environmental Health and Safety Policies and Procedures