SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14297
TITLE: Environmental Health and Safety
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.1.1 Environmental Health and Safety
Former Policy Number: 4.1.2
APPLICABILITY:
This policy applies to all members of the university community, including all faculty, staff, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors at FAU.
POLICY STATEMENT:
Florida Atlantic University (“University”) is committed to protecting the health and safety of its students, faculty, staff, and visitors as well as the environment. This is achieved through appropriate compliance with University policies and applicable laws and regulations. Responsibility for the administration of the University’s environmental health and safety program is delegated to the Director of Environmental Health and Safety and implemented through operations of the Office of Environmental Health and Safety ("EH&S"). Compliance with EH&S program procedures and guidelines and applicable laws and regulations is a shared responsibility of all members of the University.
PROCEDURES:
A.
Responsibilities.
All members of the University are responsible for compliance with applicable environmental health and safety laws, regulations, and codes as well as applicable policies and procedures of the University. Responsibility for compliance follows administrative channels noted below.
(1)
Environmental Health and Safety.  EH&S is responsible for:
identifying potentially hazardous conditions through regular inspections of University facilities, including but not limited to laboratories, buildings, animal use facilities, machine shops, maintenance areas, classrooms and offices;
developing safety manuals and guidelines to promote safe work environments and maintain compliance;
monitoring compliance with all applicable rules and procedures, guidelines, regulations and laws;
developing programs and guidelines that promote good environmental stewardship;
providing timely and effective training;
decommissioning laboratories and assisting investigators leaving the institution to ensure proper inactivation and disposal of biohazards and proper disposition/disposal of chemicals, radioisotopes, etc.;
providing timely incident response;
assisting and advising departments/units to promote a safe work environment;
assisting and advising departments in identifying individuals who by nature of their job function are at risk of potential exposure to biological, chemical, physical, and radiological hazards;
conducting audits and inspections; and
building code compliance
(2)
Committees.
The following University committees are responsible, in part, for developing policy and providing recommendations to senior management and EH&S on matters of safety and the environment:
Biological Safety – Institutional Biosafety Committee (IBC)
Diving and Boating Safety – Diving and Boating Board (DBB)
Radiological Safety – Radiation Safety Committee (RSC)
University Safety Committee (USC)
(3) Department/Unit (Deans, Directors, Department Chairs/Heads, Managers).  Deans, Directors, Department Chairs/Heads, and Managers are responsible for:
establishing, promoting, and maintaining a culture of safety within the department/unit;
responding to safety and environmental inspections;
ensuring members of the University under their units are aware of the University rules regarding environmental health and safety;
monitoring and ensuring departmental compliance with applicable rules, procedures, guidelines, regulations, and laws; and
consulting with EH&S for the development of hazard mitigation strategies.
(4) Supervisors.  Supervisors are responsible for:
identifying individuals who by nature of their job function are at risk of potential exposure to biological, chemical, physical, and radiological hazards;
assessing the workplace for chemical, physical, radiological, or biological hazards which can cause illness, injury, or impairment;
providing and ensuring proper use of safety equipment and personal protective equipment;
providing training and information regarding the EH&S programs;
monitoring and ensuring compliance with applicable programs and their related rules, regulations, policies, and procedures regarding safety and environment; and
contacting EH&S for assistance where needed.
(5) Employees, Students, Visitors, Contractors and Volunteers.  Employees, Students, Visitors, Contractors and Volunteers are responsible for:
compliance with applicable state and federal laws, regulations, and guidelines as well as approved University rules and procedures.
B.
Environmental Health & Safety Rules and Regulations.
The University will fully comply with applicable federal and state laws and regulations and other applicable requirements relating to environmental health and safety. These laws, regulations, and requirements, as well as institutional policy, guide EH&S in the development of institutional programs and procedures which will facilitate University compliance.  EH&S will consult with external agencies and regulatory bodies as appropriate on behalf of the University.
C.
Incident Reporting and Investigations.
The University has the responsibility to investigate and appropriately report environmental health and safety incidents.  Members of the University have the responsibility to:
disclose any activity that may be, or may result in, a violation of any environmental health and safety regulation;
Immediately notify appropriate emergency responders (e.g. FAUPD, or 911) of any situation that may result in an imminent hazard to persons, property, or the environment; Additional notification must be made to the direct supervisor, Student Services, or FAU point-of-contact; whichever is appropriate;
report incidents to the Director of EH&S, and
fully cooperate, and participate as appropriate, in the investigation and remediation of any incidents.
Reports of incidents in accordance with FAU procedures, reports of hazards or unsafe conditions, or those who raise questions or concerns about the University’s environmental health and safety procedures, can do so without fear of reprisal.
D.
Inspections and Audits.
EH&S has authority to:
conduct inspections and audits to ensure safe practices and compliance with various environmental health and safety related laws, policies, procedures and regulations;
access all buildings and facilities on campus to inspect, sample, or monitor conditions;
require appropriate corrective actions; and
plan strategies including the development and implementation of new safety programs.
E.
Suspend, Restrict, or Close Unsafe Operations.
The Director of EH&S, or designee, has the authority to immediately and temporarily suspend or restrict any operation that presents:
an immediate danger to the health, safety, or welfare of persons or property;
a serious violation or repeated violations of institutional requirements or standards; or
clear or threatened violation of laws or regulations.
EH&S will immediately communicate the issue or violation to the individual(s) involved and his or her immediate supervisor and notice will be promptly given by EH&S to the Vice President of Administrative Affairs, the affected department head, the affected Vice President, and the appropriate regulatory agency, as required by law.
In the event a longer term suspension or a permanent restriction or closure is warranted, EH&S shall coordinate with the Vice President of Administrative Affairs and the Vice President of the affected area for a final determination.  Terminated operations may resume only with the approval of the Director of EH&S, or designee, the Vice President of Administrative Affairs and the Vice President of the affected area.
F.
Program Areas.
EH&S, in consultation with University committees as needed, is responsible for the development and maintenance of the following programs consistent with applicable regulations and University policies. The following list of EH&S program areas under EH&S authority may change based on institutional policy, as well as revised or new laws or regulations.
Biological and Laboratory Safety – including programs such as biosafety, drinking water quality, indoor air quality, lab safety, select agents, food safety, and any others as appropriate.
Campus and Occupational Safety – including programs such as accident prevention and investigation, industrial hygiene, asbestos, indoor air quality, occupational safety, facility safety, construction safety, hearing protection, respiratory protection, confined space safety, shop safety, diving and boating safety, and any others as appropriate.
Occupational and Public Health – including programs such as infection control, medical monitoring programs, wildlife management on FAU campuses, and any others as appropriate.
Environmental Protection – including programs such as hazardous materials, spill prevention and response, hazardous waste, storm and waste water management, environmental assessments, permitting, and any others as appropriate.
Radiation and Laser Safety – including programs such as laser safety, radiological safety, radioactive waste, radiation producing machines and any others as appropriate.
Fire Safety – including programs such as emergency evacuation procedures and drills, fire extinguisher training, oversight of fire safety systems, liaison to the State Fire Marshal Office, and any others as appropriate.
Building Code Compliance – including review of project design, permitting of construction activities, code inspections, and issuance of certificates of occupancy.
EH&S is authorized to develop program documentation, educational materials, training requirements, guidance documents, and standard operating procedures to ensure compliance with relevant environmental health and safety requirements, laws, and regulations.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Director, Environmental, Health & Safety
Related Information
Environmental Health and Safety Policies and Procedures