SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14307
TITLE: Distribution of Printed Material
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.2.4 Distribution of Printed Material
Former Policy Number: 4.2.4
APPLICABILITY:
This policy is applicable to all members of the University community, including all students, faculty, staff and all visitors to the university or any of its campuses, facilities or events.  This policy supplements other related University policies and regulations, including those pertaining to the use of University facilities, the posting of posters, notices, temporary ground signs and banners, and campus free speech.
POLICY:
I.
Introduction
.  The distribution of printed material, including newspapers, handbills, leaflets, pamphlets, magazines, and printed paper(s) shall only be permitted on University property in a manner that does not materially and substantially disrupt University programs, classes, and studies of its faculty, staff, and students, the safety of University students, faculty, and staff, and the protection of the property of the University and its students, faculty, and staff, as provided below. University property should be free from excessive and abusive commercial and promotional materials, which deface and depreciate the value of our grounds, facilities, and campuses.
II.
General Distribution Guidelines
:  Any individual, group or organization desiring to distribute printed material on University property may distribute such materials in those areas permissible for assembly pursuant to the University’s policies on campus free speech, and under the following conditions:
The individual, group, or organization is subject to the Student Code of Conduct if a student or student group or organization at the University and all individual, groups or organizations are subject to University, state and federal laws and regulations that govern a person in the exercise of his or her rights of expression, including, but not limited to those relating to defamation, harassment, obscenity, pornography, violent overthrow of the government or of the existing authorities, inciting to riot, or any other law or regulation validly limiting the exercise of free speech.
To avoid littering the campus and creating potential safety hazards, printed material may not be left in stacks unattended, left on the ground (including staircases), or placed on vehicles. Equipment used in the dissemination of printed material may not be left unattended and must be removed after its use except in those instances where prior approval has been granted to distribute newspapers and other printed material at specific sites by means of vending machines or distribution boxes.
There must be no material or substantial disruption of normal operations of the University, including classroom instruction, or infringement on the rights of others pertaining to office and student living privacy, study conditions, freedom from harassment, free movement of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and restricted use of departmental bulletin boards.
In accordance with University policy on campus free speech, distributions of printed material may not take place within University buildings and facilities, including athletic or recreational fields, except in the Student Union or University residence halls under the procedures approved by the governing bodies of those areas for such distribution. Printed material may not be distributed in such a manner as to otherwise interfere with access to University buildings or facilities. Distribution of printed materials in classrooms is at the discretion of the instructor.
Any non-University printed materials which identifies the author and/or publisher as University personnel, or has subject matter, including photographs, which might imply to the reader that such publication is University or University personnel-sponsored, must contain the following statement prominently exhibited in the first page: "This publication is solely the expression of the author and/or publisher and it is not an official publication of Florida Atlantic University, nor is it in any way intended to express any policies or opinions of Florida Atlantic University, or its personnel."
No printed materials may be distributed or placed on vehicles parked on University property.
The selling of printed material is not permitted on campus except through news boxes or newsstands (see subsection III below) or as otherwise permitted by the Office of Student Development and Activities, the Office of Business Services (bookstore etc.) or University policy or sponsorships.
The passing out of materials cannot be materially or substantially disruptive to the Florida Atlantic University community. Materials may not be forced upon an individual.  Pamphlets and materials must be designed for informational (not commercial) purposes, unless otherwise authorized by the University.
III.
Use of Newsstands or News Boxes
.
All printed material sold or distributed without charge, which is left unattended, shall be stacked for distribution in distribution stands constructed of either metal or plastic previously approved by the Department of Space Utilization and Analysis (SUA).
All newsstands shall be kept in a neat and clean condition, and shall be used in a regular and periodic manner.  Any stand not so kept and used may be removed, stored and disposed of by appropriate University personnel upon request of SUA, as a nuisance to the University Community.
Newsstands may be placed only in areas specifically designated for such purposes by Space Utilization and Analysis, dependent upon the availability of space.  Additional space may be allotted on a temporary basis upon request to SUA.
IV.
Sanctions
. Failure to adhere to this policy may result in immediate removal of the distributed or posted materials, billing for clean-up, disciplinary action, a trespass warning pursuant to Regulation 7.006, and arrest and prosecution pursuant to applicable law, including without limitation those pertaining to trespass and littering.
PROCEDURES:
Any persons or organizations wishing to distribute advertising or other commercial materials must submit such materials to the Division of Student Affairs (for students or student organizations) or the Office of Public Affairs (for all other persons or organizations) for review and approval.  Requests for the placement of written materials in University newsstands or news boxes should be made through SUA.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President of Administrative Affairs, Director of Facilities Management / Space Utilization and Analysis
Related Information
Space Utilization & Analysis OSUA Policies & Procedure