SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14261
TITLE: Non-Commercial Aircraft Use
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
7.6 Non-Commercial Aircraft Use
Former Policy Number: 8.6
APPLICABILITY:
This policy applies to all University employees, directors, trustees, contractors, students, and other personnel or Accompanying Travelers regardless of the funding source for the official business. Operational use for athletics and research purposes, in accordance with their respective policies and procedures, is excluded from this policy.
DEFINITIONS:
Accompanying Travelers: Individuals who, for the purpose of conducting Florida Atlantic University/DSO/Florida Atlantic University Affiliate Official Business, are accompanying any Permitted Passengers. This definition includes a spouse, partner, or significant other of a Permitted Passenger who is expected to attend an event on behalf of, to benefit from, or to help represent the University, DSO, or affiliate.
Commercial transportation: All forms of commercial transportation to include, but not limited to: aircraft, rental cars, and all forms of public transportation.
Non-Commercial Aircraft: University-owned aircraft, or any aircraft leased or chartered on behalf of the University.
Official Business: Activities in support of the University, DSO, or Florida Atlantic University Affiliate mission.
Permitted Passengers: Florida Atlantic University, DSO, or Florida Atlantic University Affiliate employees, directors, trustees, contractors, students, and other personnel who are flying on Florida Atlantic University, DSO, or Florida Atlantic University Affiliate Official Business with the prior approval of the University President or designee.
Primary Traveler: Permitted Passenger initiating the request for non-commercial aircraft Use.
Reasonably Available: Commercial airline service that is available to meet the traveler’s departure and arrival requirements within a 24-hour period.
POLICY STATEMENT:
The standard for travel while on official business is to use all forms of commercial transportation. Non-commercial aircraft use, with prior approval by the University President, is permitted for University, Direct Support Organization (DSO) and/or Florida Atlantic University Affiliate employees, directors, trustees, students, and other personnel or accompanying travelers who are traveling on official business when cost-justifiable and in the best interest of the University. Considering the significant cost to both the University and Florida taxpayers, use of non-commercial aircraft will be rigorously scrutinized.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
1. Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer
a. Responsible for providing advice and written opinion on every non-commercial aircraft use request.
b. Maintains records of all approved non-commercial aircraft use requests.
2. Vice President, Financial Affairs
a. Responsible for providing advice on budgetary matters pertaining to non-commercial aircraft use requests.
PROCEDURES:
Policy for Non-Commercial Aircraft Use
1. Non-commercial aircraft may be used to carry permitted passengers and accompanying travelers for official business only in one of the following instances:
a. The destination is not served by commercial carriers.
b. The use of non-commercial aircraft is the most cost-effective travel arrangement.
c. The time required to use a commercial carrier signicantly interferes with permitted passenger’s official business and commercial carrier options are not reasonably available. If using this provision, provide evidence that includes, but is not limited to:
(1) Cite scheduling requirements and why they cannot be changed.
(2) Why a different individual cannot handle the particular official business which would remove the scheduling conflict that is the basis of the non-commercial aircraft use request.
(3) Other factors that make commercial transportation unacceptable and justify the use of non-commercial aircraft over alternative modes of transportation.
2. Non-commercial aircraft must not be used for any activities that do not constitute official business, including but not limited to, the following:
a. Use that deviates from or exceeds the use approved by the University President or designee.
b. Political or campaign activity.
c. Personal activity or convenience.
d. Activities that violate any law or Florida Atlantic University, DSO, or Florida Atlantic University Affiliate regulation, policy, or procedure.
3. The only authorized passengers allowed on non-commercial aircraft include the permitted passengers and accompanying travelers.
4. FAU employees, directors, trustees, contractors, and students shall not fly a rented, leased, or personal non-commercial aircraft for official business. A personal non-commercial aircraft shall not be used for official business.
Non-Commercial Aircraft Use Request Process
1. An individual covered by the Applicability section of this policy must request approval from the University President via the cognizant Vice President and Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer to use Non-Commercial Aircraft. The University President may approve their own use of non-commercial aircraft. The authority to approve use of non-commercial aircraft is non-delegable.
2. The request must be made by submission of a completed Request for Non-Commercial Aircraft Use form. As detailed in the Non-Commercial Aircraft Use form, the request must include:
a. Justification for non-commercial aircraft,
b. Detailed manifest along with official business justification for each traveler,
c. Estimation of cost of use of non-commercial aircraft and other anticipated travel costs.
3. A written opinion from the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer on every request for non-commercial aircraft must be considered by the President prior to approval. The Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer will also include advice on disclosure of gifts and other ethics issues implicated by the use of the non-commercial aircraft.
4. The University President shall review the completed Request for Non-Commercial Aircraft Use form and accompanying documentation along with the Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer’s opinion to determine if the requester’s travel is in the best interests of the university. The request must be approved prior to any use of the non-commercial aircraft.
5. If a request is approved, the University President shall provide a copy of the approval to the Vice President, Financial Affairs and Chief Compliance and Ethics Officer.
6. A certificate of insurance (COI) from the non-commercial aircraft must be secured. Aviation liability must include passenger liability for the minimum limits of $500,000 per passenger for general liability and workers compensation.
a. Proof of the COI must be provided to Florida Altantic University prior to use of the non-commercial aircraft.
b. The COI must include the verbatim additional insured language, “The Florida Atlantic University Board of Trustees, the Florida Board of Governors, the State of Florida and their respective officers, agents, volunteers and employees are listed as Additional Insured.”
RESPONSIBLE AUTHORITY:
Chief, Compliance and Ethics Officer