SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14329
TITLE: Flexible Work Arrangements
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.5.3 Flexible Work Arrangements
Former Policy Number: 7.3
APPLICABILITY:
To offer the best experience to students, parents, colleagues, and community stakeholders, the University’s standard is in-person interactions on campus during core business hours (8:00 AM to 5:00 PM, Monday through Friday). This policy applies to all non-temporary staff, including Executive Service; Administrative, Managerial and Professional (AMP); and Support Personnel (SP), who are in good standing with the University. New hires may be eligible only after working a minimum of 120-days on-campus to establish a baseline of performance and integration. An on-campus presence during core business hours, or during an employee’s assigned work hours, is mandatory unless otherwise recommended in writing by the Vice President/Dean and approved by the President, or their designee. This policy, including the required review by the President, or their designee, applies to all existing Flexible Work Arrangements and new requests.
Many jobs, roles, or positions are not suited for a flexible work arrangement. Employees under H-1B or other work visas may not be eligible for some flexible work arrangement options.
This policy does not modify the University’s procedures for submitting and approving Family Medical Leave Act (FMLA); Americans with Disability Act (ADA); Worker’s Compensation; and personal, annual and sick leave related requests. Such requests will be considered separately outside of this policy.
DEFINITIONS:
Flexible Work Agreement (FWA)
: A document that memorializes/establishes the terms of a flexible work arrangement. Requests for a FWA must be submitted and reviewed every 6 months. The President, or their designee, will consider the Vice-President/Dean’s recommendation and has final decision-making authority to approve or deny FWA requests.
Flextime Work Arrangement:
A schedule that falls outside of the unit’s usual schedule. Flextime work arrangements are not the same as an occasional need for flexibility and employees must be present at their University Workplace during specific timeframes set by the unit. A Flextime Work Arrangement must require 100% of an employee’s weekly schedule to be on campus.
Good Standing
: An employee who is not on a probationary period, has not received a notice of separation, is not currently on a Performance Improvement Plan, has not received less than a 3-Good on their last evaluation, and has not received a notice of discipline in the preceding two (2) calendar years.
Hybrid Work Arrangement:
A work arrangement in which the employee’s work occurs no less than 80% at the employee’s University Workplace on campus and no more than 20% from an off-campus location. Hybrid work arrangements require justification based on extraordinary circumstances.
Remote Work Schedule
: A work arrangement in which the employee’s work occurs 100% from an off-campus location with a maximum duration of 6 months per approval. Remote Work Schedules require justification based on operational need impacted by extraordinary circumstances that are unusual or unexpected.
University Workplace
: An employee’s workplace on any University campus or site, designated as the primary work location for the employee.
POLICY STATEMENT:
This policy establishes a framework and criteria for flexible work arrangements that advances the mission and strategic vision of Florida Atlantic University while ensuring the stability, continuity, safety and security of university operations. The University strongly prioritizes on-campus presence to foster collaboration, mentorship, and alignment with institutional goals.
The University reserves the right to modify or discontinue flexible work arrangements as the University’s operations, strategy or vision changes.
Flexible Work Arrangements consist of the following schedules:
Flextime
Hybrid
Remote
Employees are expected to remain at least as productive as if they were onsite and/or during regularly scheduled hours. All arrangements are subject to review every 6 months to ensure that the work performed meets operational needs, objectives, and service level expectations aligned with the broader university strategy and priorities. A reversion to a full on-campus schedule may be made at any time with a 15-calendar day notice period.
Arrangements shall not be used as a substitute for dependent and/or childcare. Employees participating in flexible work arrangements may not provide personal care for children/dependents during scheduled work hours.
For Hybrid or Remote Work arrangements, devices or supplies needed to perform work must be pre-approved by the Unit Head/Chair. All technical, technological, and other operational systems and services needed to perform the work must be readily accessible or in place. Expenses and incidental costs to work effectively such as, but not limited to, off-campus office maintenance, office furniture, equipment and internet service, shall be borne by the employee. The University will not provide off-campus technological support or reimbursement.
University regulations, policies and standard workplace practices, including, but not limited to, information and data security, apply to all flexible work arrangements. Units may implement more restrictive controls than what is outlined in this policy.
Employees must be ready to respond to emergencies and other urgent or unexpected matters that require work, support or coverage onsite and/or during regularly scheduled hours.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
Employees:
May request a flexible work arrangement consistent with the nature of their role.
Have the responsibility to fulfill their job functions, perform at expected professional levels, and follow all University regulations, policies, and procedures regardless of flexible work arrangement.
Remain accessible, productive, and operational during their schedule and/or unit’s schedule, with on-campus availability as the default.
Maintain a safe and secure designated alternate workplace.
Notify supervisor of any change in circumstances that may require a change to the FWA.
Non-exempt employees will continue to report all hours worked and leave used in the University’s personnel management system, including any hours worked in excess of 40 hours in a workweek. Employees are required to obtain their supervisor’s preapproval prior to working overtime.
Exempt employees will continue to report leave in the University’s personnel management system. Employees are required to obtain their supervisor’s preapproval prior to taking leave.
Supervisors:
Responsible for maintaining an appropriate level of on-campus staffing to ensure operational service excellence consistent with university goals and priorities. Supervisors are responsible for appropriately documenting all FWA requests and approvals and must track employees’ compliance with this policy. Supervisors will be held accountable for any arrangements that do not comply with the established policy procedures.
Shall assess (every 6 months and more frequently if needed) the needs and suitability of flexible work options and arrangements for their teams, considering the preference for on campus presence.
Retain the right to terminate the flexible work arrangement in consultation with their Unit Head/Chair, with a 15-calendar day notice period unless an emergency requires immediate on-site return.
Unit Heads/Chairs:
Responsible for ensuring that departments and supervisors are adhering to the policies and procedures in a manner consistent with meeting operational needs, objectives, and service level expectations aligned with the broader university strategy and priorities.
Shall be consistent in the review process regarding flexible work arrangements based on the entire unit’s needs, prioritizing on-campus staffing. Unit Heads/Chairs must monitor and assess employees’ compliance with this policy.
Retain the right to terminate the flexible work arrangement, with a preference for reverting to full on-campus schedules.
Required to review every 6 months and consider the appropriateness of any flexible work options and flexible work arrangements for their teams.
Applicable Vice President (for divisions other than Academic Affairs)/Dean (for colleges):
Shall be available to consult on the feasibility of implementing flexible work arrangements, with a presumption towards on-campus work.
Shall review flexible work arrangement requests, limiting recommendations for approval. This responsibility includes the duty to assess the unit’s overall compliance with this policy, and to document and address any non-compliance related concerns in consultation with Human Resources.
President, or their designee:
Shall review flexible work arrangement requests, including the applicable Vice President’s/Dean’s recommendation.
Shall make the final decision to approve or deny flexible work arrangement requests and timely notify the Vice President/Dean.
Human Resources:
Will be available to consult on the feasibility of implementing flexible work arrangements and alignment with the University’s on-campus focus.
Will serve as a clearinghouse for requests and established arrangements.
PROCEDURES:
Determining Eligibility of Employees for Flexible Work Arrangements:
Management should consider factors to include, but not limited to,
Consistency with unit’s approach to arrangements, and impact to the unit’s overall work or functioning, with a strong preference for on-campus execution;
Ability to effectively perform functions given the duties and responsibilities of the position and essential job functions;
Duration of arrangement request for any off-campus work;
Ability of the employee to adhere to all university regulations, policies and standard workplace practices; and
Effective management of employee’s performance, with on-site oversight as the standard.
A 6-month review of arrangements must be conducted to ensure that they benefit the unit and University.
For employees holding non-immigrant work visas (such as H-1B, TN, O-1, J-1), the hiring department must confirm with the Center for Global Engagement (Global Academic Services) if the FWA is feasible for the non-immigrant worker, with in-person work being the default.
Establishing a Flexible Work Arrangement (except Remote Work Schedule):
Employee and supervisor discuss to determine flexible work arrangement options, workplaces and suitability of job role or position, with a presumption against off-campus work.
Employee initiates the request/agreement and submits for approval.
Documented and approved flexible work agreements shall be included in the employee’s personnel file, with a mandatory review after 6 months.
Once established, the employee may commence working according to the flexible work agreement, in compliance with the requirements for the specific flexible work arrangement.
Flextime Schedule:
Schedules must be set and not fluctuate from week to week, 100% on campus.
Flextime hours may occur before or after the employee’s regular schedule.
Hours cannot be extended beyond an employee’s schedule that could potentially result in a shift differential for non-exempt employees.
Hybrid Schedule:
Schedules must be set and not fluctuate from week to week, with at least 80% at the employee’s University Workplace on campus and no more than 20% from an off-campus location.
Hybrid hours must occur during the employee’s regular schedule.
Establishing a Remote Work Schedule (Off-campus 100%):
Remote work outside of the United States is prohibited unless mandated for University business and approved by the President, or their designee.
Employee and supervisor discuss remote option suitability.
The supervisor should consult with the Unit Head/Chair to determine suitability of the position for fully remote work, limiting recommendations for approval to unusual or unexpected circumstances that may impact operational needs.
Employee initiates the request/agreement and submits.
Supervisor, Unit Head/Chair and Dean consider whether the request is in alignment with the Unit/College/Division practices and needs.
Upon supervisor and Unit Head review, the form is routed to the applicable Dean or Vice President for a recommendation to be routed to the President, or their designee, for final approval or denial, and then to Human Resources for processing.
Employee may begin working the approved remote schedule, for a maximum of 6 months.
The documented and approved flexible work agreement will become part of the employee’s file.
Discontinuing or Modifying a Flexible Work Arrangement:
Modifications to an approved work arrangement shall only address revisions to the established parameters (such as, but not limited to, work hours and work days). Moving from one work arrangement schedule to another does not constitute a modification, and instead a new request must be submitted and approved.
Any agreed upon modifications to established agreements must be documented and approved by the President, or their designee, and then filed with the agreement.
A supervisor may terminate an established arrangement with advance written notice of at least 15 calendar days at any time.
In the event of a campus emergency or other matter that requires an employee to report to their assigned campus/location, notice of less than 15 days is permitted.
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President of Administrative Affairs
RELATED INFORMATION AND DOCUMENTS:
Flexible Work Arrangements Website:
https://www.fau.edu/hr/employee_relations/flexwork.php