SOURCE: https://faupub.cfmnetwork.com/B.aspx?BookId=14309
TITLE: Facilities Management
============================================================

University Policy
Office of the President
University Policy
3.2.6 Facilities Management
Former Policy Number: 4.2.6
APPLICABILITY:
This policy applies to all members of the University community, including all faculty, staff, students, volunteers, contractors, and visitors.
DEFINITIONS:
Operations
: References infrastructure, grounds and building operations; this does not include any programmatic use and function.
Departmental or Unit Facilities Coordinators/Liaisons
: Any individual who is not employed through Facilities Management but serves as a primary contact for day-to-day maintenance and services for the facilities that their units occupy, and keeps Department/Unit Heads or Managers informed of unit-occupied facilities issues.
Education & General (E&G)
: A budget entity that contains resources that provide educational opportunities to the citizens of Florida through instructional programs leading to formal degrees at the baccalaureate, master’s and doctoral levels; research directed toward solving technical, social and economic problems facing the state and nation; and public service programs that apply the expertise of university personnel in solving public problems.
Educational Plant Survey
: A process required by Florida Statutes of all public educational entities. For the State University System it is a requirement that at a minimum of every five (5) years, each university report on the use of its existing facilities and project its future facility needs five (5) years out. This projection is based on data on existing facilities and a projection of future needs based on anticipated university growth. The results are published in a document which is the Educational Plant Survey Report.
Fixed Capital Outlay
: An appropriation category used to fund real property (land, buildings including appurtenances, fixtures and equipment, structures, etc.) including additions, replacements, major repairs, and renovations to real property which materially extend its useful life or materially improve or change it functional use, and including furniture and equipment necessary to furnish and operate a new or improved facility.
Major Projects
: Renovation, remodeling or new projects which exceed a threshold in construction cost as defined by the Board of Governors policies.
Minor Projects
: Renovation, remodeling or new projects which do not exceed a threshold in construction cost to be classified as a Major Project as defined by the Board of Governors polices.
University Space Committee (USC)
: The space committee is chaired by the Vice President of Administrative Affairs with representation from senior university leadership, such as Academic Affairs, Financial Affairs, Student Affairs, General Counsel, Division of Research, and Facilities Management to broadly cover all major areas of activity, and in particular allows for decision-making that integrates academic, research, financial, student life, and physical considerations concerning the use of University-owned or controlled space.
POLICY STATEMENT:
Florida Atlantic University (“University”) manages University-owned and controlled properties and facilities in accordance with State Statutes, Board of Governors (BOG) rules & regulations, and University policies and standards. Facilities Management (FM) is dedicated to providing exceptional management of Florida Atlantic University’s infrasructure system, building design, construction, renovations, modifications, remodeling, major/minor repairs, utilities and energy management, custodial services, maintenance of all physical facilities and grounds on all campuses, centers and sites. Additionally, Facilities Management is responsible for analyzing and reporting the university’s space inventory, management of the unit’s financial resources, and administration of campus master planning. Facilities Management takes great pride in our facilities. Our highest priority is to create a safe environment while aesthetically pleasing and to utilize our funding sources as good stewards of the university.
This policy establishes a clear authority for the maintenance, repair, renovation, remodeling, new construction, capital planning, feasibility studies, and administration of space inventory related to University facilities in accordance with applicable with federal, state, local and University requirements. This policy applies to all funding structures and units.
As delegated by the President, Facilities Management (FM) is responsible for:
Maintenance and operation of University-owned and controlled facilities and properties;
all renovation, repair, and remodeling within University-owned and controlled buildings and grounds;
design and construction, directly or by means of a contract, of all renovation, repair, and remodeling of existing University-owned and controlled structures;
construction of new University-owned and controlled buildings or structures;
facility-related capital planning and feasibility studies;
processing of lease agreements, subleases, and facilities use agreements;
Coordinating with and overseeing of construction, maintenance and operations regarding public-private partnerships; and
Coordinating the process of master planning of all campuses
This policy excludes installation, maintenance and operations of specialized systems (i.e. information technology, life safety, etc.) where authority has been delegated to a specific unit or department for oversight of specialized systems. This exclusion applies only to instances where scope of work does not impede upon or impact any other components within the building or surrounding area outside of delegated authority.
RESPONSIBILITIES:
University Space Committee
Responsible for reviewing all proposals and plans for space requests. This includes existing space, new space, proposed leased space for university use or leasing of university space to non-university group or individual.
Campus Planning and Budgeting
Planning, programming and budgeting for Fixed Capital Outlay projects at the threshold as established by the BOG policies.
Coordinating the process of University master planning, including plan updates.
Serving as the university liaison with host communities on master planning efforts.
Coordinating the selection of professional service consultants for major and minor projects, including continuing services contracts.
Planning of large scale facility-related projects.
Processing of utilities billing and chargeback for non E&G occupied space.
Design & Construction Services / Space Utilization (DCS/SUA)
Overseeing the design and construction services of major and minor projects.
Renovating and remodeling of all minor projects within the University’s owned or controlled buildings, including adding or modifying classrooms, labs, adding or removing walls, and installing specialized equipment.
Managing physical space inventory, including architectural floor plans.
Conducting ongoing facility space audits, including Educational Plant Survey, in collaboration with with colleges and units as appropriate.
Overseeing the approval of interior/exterior permanent/temporary signage.
Processing of all Facilities Use Requests.
Facilitating review and approval of all space requests and proposed plans by the University Space Committee in accordance with the Use of University Facilities policy
Physical Plant / Buildings & Grounds (PP)
Managing all general repairs, elevator maintenance, carpentry, repairing roofs, plumbing systems, housekeeping, painting and other needs related to University-owned or controlled facilities.
Managing maintenance and repair of all university grounds, including landscaping, irrigation, trash, recycling and maintaining athletic fields.
Processing of all minor repairs and renovations.
Engineering & Utilities (E&U)
Overseeing and maintaining the distribution of energy services to campus buildings and delivery of utilities services to all University-owned or controlled buildings and grounds, including but not limited to energy management controls/chiller plant/heating ventilation and air conditions (HVAC)/meter readings/preventative maintenance, utility usage, sanitary waste removal through sanitary sewer, campus lighting and other related needs.
Managing the distribution of heating, cooling, ventilation, building air conditioning systems and generators.
Coordinating and managing all planned and unplanned outages and coordinating modifications and repairs.
Processing utilities-related minor repairs and renovations.
Department/Unit (Deans, Directors, Department Chairs) Heads/Managers or superiors
Adhering to and complying with policies, procedures, directives and guidance as outlined by Facilities Management; including but not limited to reporting and/or submitting work order requests for any repairs and renovations within assigned/occupied facilities.
Departmental or Unit Facilities Coordinators/Liaisons
:
Adhering to and complying with policies, procedures, directives and guidance as outlined by Facilities Management.
Submitting work order requests for any repairs and renovations within assigned/occupied facilities.
Reporting any unauthorized facilities-related work being performed (including minor painting of offices by employees) outside of Facilities Management work order or minor project process.
Reporting any unauthorized work through vendors for facilities-related repairs and/or renovations not managed by Facilities Management, including the purchase and installation of partitions or modular furniture not coordinated through Facilities Management.
Recommending to Facilities Management a list of external vendors who may be required to provide services for specialized programmatic needs that (may) impact operations.
Employees, Students, Visitors, Contractors and Volunteers
Complying with all applicable University rules, regulations, policies and procedures.
RELATED INFORMATION:
Board of Governors Regulations Construction Programs
;
University Facilities Management
;
Use of University Facilities
INITIATING AUTHORITY:
Vice President for Administrative Affairs
Related Information
Facilities Management AVP Policies & Procedure
Space Utilization & Analysis OSUA Policies & Procedure